This is Jocopodcast number 1-10.
With echo-chirls and me, Jocobillic.
Good evening, echo.
Good evening.
All sciences have principles and rules.
War has none.
The great captains who have written of it give us none.
Extreme cleverness is required to even understand them.
And it is impossible to base any judgment on their relations of the historians.
For they only speak of war as their imaginations painted.
As for the great captains who have written of it, they have attempted rather to be interesting than instructive.
Since the mechanics of war is dry and tedious.
Books dealing with it have small success and their merit will not be recognized except after the passage of time.
Those writing historically of war have better luck.
They are sought by all the curious and kept in the all libraries.
That is why we only have a confused idea of the discipline of the Greeks and Romans.
War is a science covered with shadows in whose obscurity one cannot move within a shared step.
Routine and prejudice the natural result of ignorance are its foundation and support.
Nothing is so disgraceful as slavishness to custom.
This is both a result of ignorance and a proof of it.
Shevelair Fullard supposes all men to be brave at all times and does not realize that the courage of the troops must be reborn daily.
That nothing is so variable and that the true skill of a general consists of knowing how to guarantee it by his dispositions, his positions, and those traits of genius that characterize great captains.
Perhaps he reserved of this immense, perhaps he reserved discussion of this immense subject and perhaps also it escaped him.
Nevertheless, it is of all the elements of war, the one that is most necessary to study.
The same troops who, if attacking would have been victorious, may be inevitably defeated in entrenchments.
Few men have accounted for it in a reasonable manner for it lies in human hearts and one should search for it there.
No one has written of this matter which is of the most importance, the most learned and the most profound of the profession of war.
And without a knowledge of the human heart, one is dependent upon the favor of fortune which sometimes is very inconstant.
So those are some opening words from a book called Reverees on War by Maristisax.
This guy is a character, Maristisax.
You do a little research on him.
Did you find out how much of a character he was?
No, not.
He was a serious character.
There's a couple things, there's a couple things even in that opening right there that I wasn't sure if I was going to cover this.
And I was kind of like going back to it to see if it was something we should cover.
But I just, when you get right here, all sciences have principles and rules, war has none.
That's a true statement.
And it's true that there's, you know, there's principles of warfare, but there's no actual rules.
Like you can do whatever you want. I mean, you can say that you need a convention, but then you can just defy it and just, you know, you can do things that are completely opposed to it.
So there's no rules. You should do whatever you want to win.
Now you could lose your respect and you could act inhumane and that might cost you in the long run, but if war is war, there's no other thing like that.
Right? There's no other thing like that. Do whatever you want.
I guess if you had a, if you had like a street fight with no weapons and someone's going to do whatever they could to win, right?
It's the same, it's, that's war.
It's the same thing. Yeah, I'm sure.
Yeah, when you do it like death is kind of the goal and the consequences at the same time like death.
That's the end of the line. So yeah, anything goes essentially.
Yeah.
Yeah, nothing else is like that.
Then he says this, nothing is so disgraceful as slavishness to custom.
That's a bold statement too.
Mm-hmm.
I agree.
Disgraceful. He calls it. He talks about these prejudices that people have.
I think you call them. What do you call them?
Biasis, right? Cognitive biases. He talks about, he doesn't talk about that, but he talks about them.
But this guy was a character. He lived from 1696 to 1750.
He started off as a German soldier in the army of the Holy Roman Empire, which was like this bunch of territories in Europe that were banded together on the same day.
They were banded together under that name, and they were around for a long time from like the Middle Ages until the time of the Napoleonic Wars.
So, you know, the early 1800s.
And he served also served in the Imperial Army, which was another kind of army that often fought alongside the army of the Holy Roman Empire.
And he's funny, but the weird thing is, is he finished his career as the martial general of France.
And so he kind of, I guess you could say, kind of switch size, but he rose up through the ranks.
Because his military career started at the age of 13 when he fought at the Battle of Malpukhe.
I think that's how you say it.
Which, and that that war, that battle right there was that was between the army of the Holy Roman Empire and France.
So he was on both sides at certain points of his life.
And I think the whole time he was, it seems like from what I read about him, he was always kind of looking to go up the social structure.
You know, rise up in the social structure and become more a powerful person in the hierarchy of those times in the dominance hierarchy.
So yeah, he started fighting at age 13, which by the way, that's just so cool.
I don't, I'm sorry if you think I'm a bad person, but as far as I'm concerned, if I could join the military at 13, I would have been so stoked.
Sorry, everyone that doesn't agree with that, that's just how I roll.
I'm just telling the truth on that one.
And actually as I look back on my life, if I could have done that would have been even better.
I think they should allow people to join the military. They should have some like a youth core. You can go in and just get after it at a young age.
But they think a 13 year old can't make that decision.
And they're right. The 13 year old can't make that decision. So you'd have to have really benevolent people that were in charge of them and charge of these troops.
And you also think that an 18 year old person can make a good decision.
But that's not true because you got 18 people that are dumb or dirt.
You can make bad decisions. And people will worry that you're going to get thoughts put into your head.
Yeah, you are. You are. And guess what? If they're good thoughts right on, that's not a bad thing, right?
Yeah, but I mean, you have to learn everything yourself. Is that the way the world works?
You can't have good ideas put in your head. You can't get a little bit programmed.
Yeah, you can't get programmed to be a better human being. Would you accept that program?
Yeah, of course. Okay, I'm just checking.
But as you're over there looking like because I'm a bad person because I'm trying to brainwash you know, because you're just saying.
Like, we're better. Good and better. Like there's this universal good and better. You know, there is.
There is. I mean, there is. Okay. But it's so narrow.
Because then we have Jordan B. Peterson on there. You can convert that. You can you can have a conversation with him about that.
How do you say that you don't know that there's universal good and you've universal.
No, no, no, I'm saying. I mean, we could give it a lot of the things of things right now that we know are good and bad.
I don't know about the child. Is that good or bad? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. For sure. I'm going to take something that doesn't belong to you.
Good or bad. Yeah. But those, they're still basic and fundamental. You don't need a youth core to well.
There's a lot of people out there that don't get taught that stuff. And that's true, too.
But that's all different issue. Okay. Well, I'm just making sure.
Yeah. But if you're, I know what you're saying. You're saying good, like good ideas and good ideas.
You're talking about your way specifically, which I think.
No, no, no, no. I would not. I would not. And I still, even, you know, I get in trouble for this because for instance,
if you were saying, oh, you shouldn't wake up at 430 in the morning. And I always say, like, yeah, I know.
I'm not saying you have to wake up at 430 in the morning. I'm saying to wake up earlier. Don't be lazy.
Yeah. Right. I'm not saying you have to. I say, you know, don't eat donuts, right? I'm not saying you can never taste anything that tastes good.
I'm just saying, be smart. Man, come on. You don't need to donut.
You don't know. It's a really actually on the evil. They might just be peer evil too, by the way. Right. Very well.
Come on, man. Don't know, Sony. They don't even make you feel. I mean, is there any, do you get any satisfaction from a donut?
Status will depends on what you mean by satisfaction. You always want to try and parse these things. Well, you can't.
It's not absolutely okay. So I guess you get a 10 second taste in your mouth. Sure.
Yeah.
Sure.
You're rush.
Yeah.
So, and technically pay for that.
You're health and fitness.
Sure.
You know, it seemed to care.
No.
You mean, I'm trying to look at it from all angles.
Satisfaction. Yeah. Technically and by luck.
Okay. But you could go for some fundamental good things. And I'll tell you this.
The military does teach some fundamental good things. So if I could have joined at the age of 13, it would have been good for me.
I would have been stoked. Actually, I would have missed out on some cool stuff too, because I had some fun back in the jury.
And I did a cool stuff.
That actually led to me being who I am today.
You know, I learned some stuff.
But not what I'm saying. The point is, is that your way, not everyone will agree.
I agree with you.
Oh, okay.
And I'm sure a bunch of people do.
Yeah.
But I'm just saying this like different.
No, I guess I'm not pro universal brainwashing to my methods of.
Yeah.
I'm not, I'm not, which makes 13 year old by the way.
Which is 13 year old.
Now, I'll tell you.
I just said that that going in the military, I would have missed out on some things.
You know, maybe some growing up experiences.
Marista Sack didn't miss out on a on a damn thing because he was getting after it in many different ways.
Not only on the battlefield, but also as a.
A little bit of a maniac.
He was, first of all, he was like apparently physically.
He was kind of a beast of a man.
And like physically.
And he fought.
He kind of proved himself.
He distinguished himself in some big battles as he was 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 years old.
Apparently he could bend a horseshoe with his head.
With his hand and I was looking at that.
I was thinking myself, he, they mean hands, right?
They must mean hands.
Yeah.
It didn't say that.
It's at hand.
And I didn't want to take anything away from him.
So apparently he could grab a, he was big and
could grab a horseshoe and just bend it in one hand.
So he had some serious strength and through his life,
he commanded companies, which he actually refers to as centuries,
which if you can imagine century, we know that means 100.
So a century, like the ancient Roman army had centuries,
instead of companies.
And they weren't even 100 people.
They were like 80 people.
But he led those, he led regiments.
And he led whole armies.
And he fought with a lot of success throughout his career.
Now with that, that being said,
he was far from what anyone would actually
consider role model because he, the way he lived his personal life,
who's not exactly exemplary, exemplary.
I didn't say that word right.
Exemplary.
Yes.
In fact, well, the way he lived his life was probably the opposite
of role model.
So he was forced into marriage at the age of 18.
He didn't want to get married because he, I think he was,
too much of a woman, I certainly said, I don't want to get married.
But he married this eras, 14 year old eras with a ton of money.
He blew all her money.
And he was 18, she was 18, she was 14.
She was, she was an eras with a bunch of money.
He took all her money and blew it on horses for his regimen.
And on women,
mistresses.
And then he had a bunch of public affairs.
And everyone kind of knew about it.
And the marriage got unrolled.
And he continued this kind of want and behavior.
I think throughout his life.
And a couple times he's hypocritical.
Because in the book he talks about certain types of people.
And I don't know if I cover it.
But he does come across a little bit.
Hypocrinical sometimes.
Now, I think one of, this is this one quote I grabbed from this mistress.
This kind of famous mistress.
Actually, she's recognized as the chief mistress of King Louis XV.
So did you know that the King had, like not just mistresses?
We know that.
But there's a chief mistress who's known.
Yeah.
Her name was Madam Depompador.
And this is what she said about sex.
Marista sex does not understand anything about the delicacy of love.
The only pleasure he takes in the society of women can be summed up in one word debotuary.
So he's a little bit out of control.
He might have, in fact, inherited his lifestyle choices from his dad,
whose name was Frederick Augustus, who was well known for his personal unbridled lust.
How do you know that he had unbridled lust?
Well, case and point.
Marista was the eldest.
So Marista sex was the eldest of 354 acknowledged illegitimate children that Frederick father.
So while we might not want to emulate Marista sex's personal life,
he was an experienced and successful leader of men on the battlefield.
And we can learn from him.
And with that, let's go back to the book.
And here's Marista sex.
The man who has the talent for architecture and can design will draw the plan and perspective of a palace with great skill.
But if he is to execute it, if he does not know how to shape his stones to lay his foundation,
the whole edifice will crash soon.
It's the same with a general who does not know the principles of his art,
nor how to organize his troops.
For these are indispensable qualifications in all the operations of war.
The prodigious success with which the Romans always gained with small armies against
multitudes of barbarians can be attributed to nothing but the excellent composition of their troops.
Not that I would infer from this that a man of genius will not be able to succeed,
even at the head of an army of tartars.
It is much this is the interesting part.
It is much easier to take men as they are than to make them as they should be.
It is difficult to reconcile opinions, prejudice, prejudices and passions.
So there's a couple interesting things.
I also forgot to point out that he wrote this kind of on a whim.
And he actually starts off this whole book.
He says, this work was not born from a desire to establish a new method of the art of war.
It was composed to amuse and instruct myself.
And then one of the last things he says in the book is,
to the readers, I wrote this book in 13 nights.
I was sick.
Thus it very probably shows the fever I had.
This should supply my excuses for the irregularity of the arrangement,
as well as the in elegance of the style.
I wrote militarily to anticipate my boredom.
Now on top of those, that excuse, right?
On top of that, he was a big opium user.
So we're figuring he was probably right in this in an impaired state.
We're dealing with it.
We're not, we're not mad about it, but we're realistic.
And the reason I say this is because some of the writing is a little bit tricky
and some run on sentences.
And yeah, so we have to, we have to pull a little bit harder.
It's nuggets, but there's plenty of nuggets.
And I think that's one of them.
It's much easier to take men as they are than to make them as they should be.
And where I look at that as a leader, you get people that are good at something.
And you get someone that's not good at something,
but they're good at something else.
You put people where you can use them.
You put people where their skills are most available and where they can,
where they can perform their duties to the highest level,
because they're naturally good at it.
That's all it's saying.
I'm not having you proofread my writing at night, right?
Yeah, no.
No.
No, I'm not.
And I'm not over here trying to make videos.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
You see what I'm going with us?
Yes.
It would be easier if you said, you know what, Jocco?
When it comes to podcast, why don't you come up with a talking,
a bunch of talking, and I'll make cool videos, right?
We kind of did that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Otherwise, people would be listening to you.
Talk about movies from 1988 and comparing them to stuff.
Yeah, very, very clunky.
Which is, you know, it's fine.
Yeah.
But, and then wouldn't you have to expand more resources in your part to coach me up?
Yeah, so I'm imagining that.
Yeah, and I'd be trying to make videos, which I can,
and I'd be having to coach you.
Which you make me mad.
We don't want that.
No, it would make me mad, because it's dealing with computers and stuff.
Yeah, I don't mind computers, but I don't like them.
Sure.
No.
So.
Yeah.
But that's a big part of why he's saying it, though, right?
Because it's like, you're going to save yourself a lot of time and headache.
When you're trying to coach these guys up and stuff.
When you get to the seal teams, it's like, oh, you're a small guy.
Cool.
You're going to be a point, man.
Yeah, yeah.
You're a big guy.
Cool.
You're going to carry an M60 or an Altsomark 48.
That's how it's happening.
We're not going to take the small guy and try and get him to come up.
They can taller and bigger and stronger, and we're not going to take the big guy and
starve him.
It's enderman to range your school.
So he loses 38 pounds and he comes back and like, okay, your appointment now.
No, let's use nature.
He talks about that in other places.
All right.
He's talking about in this section how to, how to raise an army basically.
How do you make an army?
And I thought this one was a little bit interesting because people ask me this question all the
time he's talking about mandatory service.
And this is his opinion on it.
Would it not be better to prescribe by law that every man, whatever his condition in life,
should be obliged to serve his prince and his country for five years.
Doesn't that's no joke.
Sometimes people say two years and that seems reasonable and a lot of countries do that.
He says five years and it's kind of funny his attitude towards five years back to the
book.
This law could not be objected to because it is natural and just that all said is since
he should occupy themselves with the defense of the nation.
Conquer, no inconvenience could result if they were chosen between the ages of 20 and 30 years.
These are all the years of liberty niche when you seek its fortune travels the country and
is of little comfort to parents.
This would not be a public calamity because one could be sure that when five years
had passed, discharge would be granted.
So he's saying like people couldn't be mad about it because it's only five years.
And he's also saying, look, this is when your kids are out of control in ways.
You might as well happen in the military.
There's that whole idea of the liberty in that took place back in the day.
And these guys were basically wild morally getting after it or I should they were, they
were, they were partying wicked heart.
I'm trying to think of a good way to say it.
They were partying wicked heart with drugs, booze and women.
The libertyans and they, they called them a rake like a guy, a guy that was out there
with a bunch of different women all the time.
They'd be called the rake.
There's a bunch of period novels that I had to read when I was in college.
That's why I know about it about these liberty and rakes.
So he continues on this method of raising troops would provide an inexhaustible reservoir
of fine recruits who would not be subject to desertion.
And of course of time as a consequence it would be regarded as an honor to have fulfilled
one service.
I'd say that's probably accurate.
But to produce this effect is essential to make no distinctions to be immovable on this
point and to enforce the law particularly on the nobles and the rich.
Then no one will complain.
Hey, you've got to, you've got to do it to, one person, you've got to do it to everyone
equally.
But consequently those who had not served their time will scorn those who are reluctant to obey
the law and insensibly it will become an honor to serve.
The poor bourgeois who will be consoled by the example of the rich and the rich will not
dare complain upon seeing the nobles serve.
Arms is an honorable profession.
How many princes have borne arms?
Now what's interesting about this idea is that there's some people in the world that aren't
really meant for warfare.
And social we let nature, I more heavily agree with the previous point.
You should let people do what they're good at naturally.
So you're going to end up recruiting people that might not be good at this naturally.
And that's not a good thing.
But not everyone was a war right?
No, you're right.
You could put them in different jobs.
Yeah, that's absolutely true.
They could put the guy that's more, more apt to be good at writing.
He could become a military journalist.
Yeah, you're right.
People always ask me that question.
And the bottom line is it's a tough one.
I'm sure I don't have like some hardcore stance on it one way or the other.
Do I think it would benefit everyone every 18 year old if they join the military?
It would benefit them.
I'm telling you it would benefit them.
Do I think it should be mandatory?
I don't really think so because I don't want to have a bunch of drafts in the military.
And if you don't want to join it, you want to miss out on having that partner life.
And that's what you're called.
And that's why in the America you can do what you want.
Yeah, that makes sense.
Because on one hand, you kind of can look at it as like taxes, right?
Where how it just like how this access is saying, you know, you have to have the
I'm preferring the pleasure or the honor to serve in one's your country's defense.
You know, like that should be obvious.
And so it's kind of like compared with paint taxes, right?
Taxes go to public service.
Like for all this stuff.
We live in this country.
We have public service.
We all have to pay for it.
Not just one person.
Yeah.
We all pay.
I want to pay a lot more than other people.
Yeah, exactly right?
A lot more.
Yeah.
I think it's some people don't really pay taxes.
And that's how the military would have been.
You just said everyone pays their tax done.
Not everyone pays.
I know that.
And it's the fight.
What if?
Okay.
So good.
Yeah, perfect.
Exactly.
Part of my point is, so let's say, I'm like, hey, you just paid you to let's say it's tax
times.
April 15th, whatever.
So we'll pay taxes around just that.
Yeah, I know I'm just saying.
But at the time, we're called a quarterly extra.
You don't want none.
I actually know about that.
That's not the good stuff.
Thankfully.
Or not something.
But let's just say for this example in 15th, that's when everyone knows it.
You're right.
And you're like, yeah, I just paid my taxes.
Whatever.
I didn't like giving my money away, but that's it.
Just like people in the draft situation or men and tear mills.
I didn't want to.
I would rather go be a rake or whatever.
But I'm doing it.
And boom, I did it. And then you got me or maybe that means someone else saying,
oh, yeah, I didn't pay my taxes.
Yeah.
And then you're like, whoa, way, way.
So you're saying it becomes an honor to pay your taxes.
In a way.
I could agree with you.
No, no, no, no.
There's I think there's a part of your brain, no matter how much you pay for taxes.
It is like, you do have that feeling like I did my part, even though it's soft,
even though it hurt, even though, you know, a way rather spent it on a Disney vacation
or something like that.
No, I would have rather been a bit of a little bit of a self into something that was
productive.
I built more business or something like that.
You know, just little things like that.
But whatever.
You see what I'm saying.
All right.
I mean, I hear you.
It's kind of the same thing.
That's one way to look at it though.
Or you can.
But the other, the other one way.
Yeah.
But the other way is just like, you said, if you get some people who are in there in the military,
with certain like jobs or whatever, and they don't want to be there, it's kind of too
important to have people like that.
Yeah.
But you could have, yeah.
What you said is actually correct that you could have elements that just did other things
in the military that would be more aligned with the person's natural desires of what they want
to do.
Yeah.
And now there's something in the Navy called Needs of the Navy, right?
So you would get a Navy, you, oh, I want to go get stationed in Hawaii.
Like, OK, what are the needs of the Navy?
Because the needs of the Navy come first, not you, not your family, nothing.
Yeah.
And so the needs of the Navy come first.
Well, yeah.
And of course, same thing with like a tax situation where it's like, you're, if you don't
want to do it, it's kind of hard to be like, I know you don't want to do it.
But hey, it's now that you're here, do what you want.
You know, you can't say that otherwise, I'll be like, I don't want to be here.
So I can do what I can do.
OK, I'm going to do the the most smallest, most light, least time consuming.
Like basically I'm going to do the least I possibly can't because I don't want to be here
to be in the military.
Is this the, this is the mandatory military.
This will go for it.
Yes.
And that'll go for it.
So you're going to get, this is kind of like,
I guess you get people that would be not doing very much.
Yeah, it's essentially a good, like, draft,
Dodger kind of situation, but within, you know, who didn't actually dodge it.
If I'm just saying, if it were a scenario like, we'll just put them where they're
interests lie.
Even though they have to be here, same thing.
So I'm just saying that's the other side of the coin, where it's like, it's hard to
make, make it work in an absolute kind of way.
Check.
All right, he talked a little bit about clothing troops, what they should wear.
And this is just, I thought this was interesting.
Our uniform is not only expensive, but very, very uncomfortable.
The soldier is neither shot nor cloth nor covered.
The love of appearance prevails over attention to health.
And this is one of the most important points demanding our attention.
Hair is a dirty ornament for a soldier.
And once the rainy season has arrived, his head has never dry.
So it sounds to me like he's basically saying he doesn't care how he's looks.
He's healed a win.
So hair is a dirty ornament for a soldier in place of hats.
I should prefer helmets as for shoes.
This was interesting.
You know, people wear minimalistic shoes,
with out with zero heel to toe drop.
If you're that expression, meaning it's the same level across.
So it's any of the barefoot type shoes that they all say,
oh, zero heel to toe drop, meaning there's not an eight millimeter difference between the height of the heel.
And then it goes down to the height of the toe.
This is what he says.
As for shoes, I would prefer the soldiers to have shoes of thin leather with low heels.
Instead of heavy boots, they would be perfectly shot and would march with better gray since low heels.
Would force them to turn out their toes, stretch their joints,
and consequently, consequently draw in their shoulders.
It's pretty interesting because everyone's all in the range of minimalistic shoes,
which I actually wear shoes that don't have any heel to drop.
Yeah.
Maybe I'm caught up in that fad.
But it's cool.
But you know what, when we were kids, right, Chuck Taylor's?
Yeah, Chuck Taylor's.
Yeah.
They have no heel to drop.
People so wear them because they're good to go.
That's kind of all well.
Mostly all the way right now.
Yeah.
Well, there you go.
You're in a big time trend.
You're early adopter.
Yeah.
I didn't know about it.
I brought much Chuck Taylor's a two narrow for me.
Two narrowed.
Yeah.
And they don't sell wide ones.
I've looked.
All right.
Pay, which got to pay people back to the book.
Without going into detail about the different rates of pay,
I shall only say that it should be ample.
It is better to have a small number of well-capped and well-disciplined troops
than to have a great number who are neglected in these matters.
It is not the big armies that win battles.
It is the good ones.
Economy can boost people's push.
Only to a certain point.
It has limits beyond which it degenerates into parsimony.
I had to look that word up, by the way.
parsimony.
Yeah.
Occasionally, you get one of those.
It means just super cheap.
Super cheap.
It's interesting because that doesn't sound like the dad.
It would fall in that category.
parsimony.
So if your dad would be considered parsimonious?
I guess so.
I know that my dad like many dads will drive an extra 18 miles to save three cents a gallon on gas.
Is that all dads do that?
No.
They don't do that.
Well, yeah.
You drive 18 miles.
You're in the ocean.
That's the time.
Yeah.
I've heard of that before.
Isn't that like a false thing though?
Like because you drive your team.
Yeah.
For sure.
Kind of put it, joke.
You know, you get the app that has the cheapest gas prices in your area.
Yeah.
How much time are you spending looking at an app that you paid three dollars for to find out where the
You saved two cents a gallon or gas?
Yep.
Now get it.
I'm cheap.
I inherited that.
Right?
I don't like to spend money.
I'm hard for me to part with the money, right?
Including the tax man by the way.
It's hard for you.
So I get it.
But I also have to have some like sometimes my dad could be irrational about it.
Sure.
You know, irrational just straight up crazy.
Hey, well, you could save two cents.
Yeah.
Hey, if you know what?
He gets fired up about that too.
Yeah.
That's another thing.
You know, he always asked me how much the how much the gas out there in California.
I'm like, I don't know what I'm going to pay for anyways.
Let's take the nozzle there and pull the trigger and rock it all.
I got stuff I got to do.
I'm not right.
How much cheaper is gas on base?
When I didn't know how much cheaper gas was on base, he was beside himself.
Yeah.
And then we found out it was eight cents a gallon cheaper.
You can't get on base.
You want to go drive over there, wait, line, show you right knee and then we get on base.
You got to wait.
Because no.
Come on.
Wait, is it because parsimonious?
Yeah.
I'm going to try to use that one.
But that's because the because it's like a win, right?
You get a win when you got the deal.
You think you got psychological win?
Yeah.
I think that is it because yeah.
People like that too.
Back to the book.
Hope encourages men to endure and attempt everything in depriving them of it or in making it
too distant, you deprive them of their very soul.
Now, that immediately made me think of the stolen crowd when we were reading about stolen
ground.
And the fact that the soldiers, when something would give them a glimmer of hope, it would
totally change their attitude.
Like when they thought that the German troops were coming to rescue the guys that were
in stolen ground and the pocket in the stolen ground, they were all excited and they were
so happy and he literally said everyone's morale went up and then they find out they're not
coming to just crushed.
Yeah.
Crushed morale.
That's based on hope.
Yeah.
Fully.
And you kind of see that in like a workout, for example, like if you have a football
we don't have like conditioning.
Right.
And sometimes they just be like, hey, we're just running sprints.
Win sprints.
It wouldn't say, hey, we've got 10 wins sprints.
It's not like that.
And after a while, like guys are dying and not dying.
But you don't wear getting tired.
So the sprints are a lot slower towards it.
But they say, two more.
Finish hard for all of a sudden everybody can run fast again.
Yeah.
Because you see that little light of the time.
That second's pretty cool.
I was kidding.
Eight more.
I'm going to do it.
Yeah.
And then you watch the hope just go, boom.
Back to being slow.
Back to the book.
This is pretty heavy.
Truly, the only good officers are the poor gentleman who have nothing but their sword and their cape.
But it is essential that they should be able to live on their pay.
The man who devotes himself to war should regard it as a religious order into which he enters.
He should have nothing, no other home than his troop.
And should hold himself honored in his profession.
So there you go.
All in.
Yeah.
And when people always ask me, especially when I was in about work life balance and I'm like,
I'm not the guy to talk about not the good person, especially when I was in the military.
Because this was me.
My number one priority 100% was the deems.
Everything else was just kind of, hey.
Everyone else is along for the ride, but I know where I'm going.
So being that devoted to war and it has a power.
That has a certain, it made, you know, if you got a guy that's thinking about all the time,
I think it was Jade.
Jade and I were talking about something.
And he said, the person who cares more wins.
Yeah.
And that's accurate.
And I want a lot of stuff in my day.
Just because I cared more.
I mean, I'm not going to sleep.
I'm just going to be thinking about this. You're going to go home.
And this weekend, you're going to go and do a family barbecue and you're going to go play baseball with the kids and
Bubblebot.
And I was just like, no, I'm just going to be doing this all weekend.
I'll be working on this.
We're going, I'm, I got, I care about this.
Yeah.
Nothing else matters.
So that's a, again, is it healthy for work life balance?
No.
It's not worth healthy.
Except for to say, if you're that committed to your work, you're committed person, then I'm
going to try to take care of your family.
I thought I'm necessarily a bad thing.
Am I reaching?
Maybe.
Yeah.
I think you're.
Okay.
I'm reaching.
That's fine.
You know, Mary, a good independent woman, that doesn't need emotional support for you all the time.
So she understands that that was the big thing for me.
I think my wife understood that it wasn't meant as an offensive thing.
Yeah.
I have a job and I really care about my job.
Doesn't mean I don't care about you, but my job is right now.
And I need to do that.
Yeah.
And even the work life balance.
My stupidity has been.
No, no, because the work life, no, because there is no templated time, a lot of, you know,
that you need to spend with these people, those people are work versus the fact, there's
no like thing, you know, sometimes if you're like, hey, I need to spend more time with my wife.
Your wife's like, bro, go do, give me a loan.
You know, like, we spent the weekend again, calm down, you know, go to work or whatever.
Some people like that in the, it's a spectrum.
So work life balance is like it depends on your wife and, you know, in a husband, why situation?
You know, I suppose instead of trying to take a life work life balance, lessen out of this, I think the most important thing to take out of this is
is the level of commitment, right?
If you really want to be successful, yeah.
And I'm not just talking about war.
I'm talking about business.
I'm talking about life.
If you really want to be successful, you got to, you got to get after it.
Yeah.
That's the other things aside for now.
Right.
Just the way it is.
Yeah.
Sorry.
All right.
Back to the book, training.
Drill is necessary to make the soldier steady and skillful, although it does not warrant exclusive attention.
Among all the elements of war.
It even is the one that deserves the least.
If one accepts those which are dangerous.
I tried to figure out that, man.
I just thought, OPM.
That was an OPM.
Yeah.
Hit right there.
The last part.
The foundation of training depends, oh, this is good.
But, but, okay.
So, Drill, if you don't think about the military, drill, especially back in those days, it
was, it really was a necessary thing, because you had to function together as a team.
And the way you do that, we still do what's called close order drill in the military.
Now, you've seen it go watch the US Marine Corps, close order silent drill team.
They do all these really specific maneuvers.
And they have competitions and high schools between the ROTC classes, where you know you're
caring the rifle, you spin, you do all that stuff.
That's called drill.
Yeah.
The reason it originated is because you needed, for two reasons, number one, you actually had
to do those motions on the battlefield, rage, rifle, load, make ready, aim, fire.
And then the next rank will be doing the same thing.
You had to do it in a coordinated method.
And the other reason that they kept doing it according to my drill instructor in off your
unit school, gunnery sergeant, United States Marine Corps, all the enough last name was Seals.
Those are the last name, great guy.
Layers.
Yeah, Layers.
Gunnery sergeant Seals, my drill instructor from the United States Marine Corps, at
Officer Canada School, he said the reason that you're learning this drill is because the
reason that we do drill is because people need to act instantly upon orders.
So it drills into your level of obedience when you get told by the left flank, march everyone
goes, by the right flank, march everyone goes.
So it teaches you that, ham, going to go.
That's what they used to use it for, but they still use it now to so that people get used
to the immediate obedience of orders.
Now, does that get contradicted by things that I talk about all the time on here, but questioning
orders and making sure you understand why you're doing it?
Yeah, it does absolutely.
But there is a, that's why that's what it exists for.
Yeah.
And at least the capability to do that.
Is there?
Yes.
The capability is there.
Back to the book, the foundation of training depends on the legs and not the arms.
All the mystery of maneuvers and combat is in the legs and it is to the legs that we
should apply ourselves, whoever claims otherwise is but a fool and not only in the elements
of what is called the profession of arms.
So interestingly.
There are personal problems with people that talk about skipping leg day.
They go back to here.
The big guns.
The big arms.
They don't want to help us in the, in the art of war.
Yeah.
According to sacks.
In a while, they call that big for nothing.
Actually big for nothing and then why it means like I guess here they say all go no
show.
Right.
So that's kind of what having big arms and small legs kind of is as well.
You're on board with that.
Well, yeah.
No.
I never was skipping legs day.
You're the one teasing me and I was wondering why is that so funny but I guess yeah.
That's why it's in the day one.
It's a fool.
Because you look like a fool.
That's it.
That's the answer.
Dang.
Yep.
It goes back.
Yeah.
It goes back a long time.
Even back then people were skipping leg day.
Yeah.
Because they were fools.
Oh, they're focusing on the wrong thing.
And it makes sense.
Even like in those terms, they make sense today.
Let me tell you something.
Well, the amount.
When I was in the teams, I was running training and I still talk guys obviously.
But if you think about what's going on, the train, like people, people, you know, I say all the time, like all the
Seal training is not that hard.
Right.
I say all the time.
Like, but I'm talking about buds.
I'm telling you the advanced training that you go to, the training that I used to run.
It's it's freaking really hard.
It's really hard.
You're in the desert.
The desert, don't think of sand, think of rocks, think of jagged on the even terrain up and down hills.
Yeah.
Then think about your on night mission.
So it's at night.
Think about you have, let's call it about 80 pounds of gear on just on average.
That's like the average guy's got 80 pounds of gear on.
You're going to get dropped off in the middle of the desert.
Again, not the desert, but the rocky.
What's it called?
Sub.
I forget it's it's the rocky, crazy terrain.
It's hard to walk on in the daytime.
It's hard to walk on.
Now you're at night.
Now you have night vision on, which is great.
But night vision is looking far away.
And you can adjust one of your night vision side.
So you have to and you can adjust one to one to close.
So you can see a little bit, but still your peripheral vision isn't there.
Yeah. So you can't really see what's actually underneath your feet.
You can look down and then you can see it for a second, but you can't walk around looking down the whole time.
You got to look at the guy in front of you.
You got to look at the you feel the fire.
So as you're walking, you're making these micro adjustments all the time to adapt to your foot,
hitting the ground in some weird spot.
And so you get that.
And then you have that weight on your back.
And so you get dropped off.
Then you patrol 10 kilometers.
10 kilometers.
Maybe what what's that that's six miles.
So you're going six miles. Then you get six miles.
You get to a target area.
You get to the target area.
You got to get eyes on the target area.
You know, you get eyes on.
You climb the biggest hill around.
At night being as quiet as you can.
You get to the top of that hill.
You look at it.
Then you go and assault the target.
Once you assault the target.
Guess what you're getting for when you're assaulting the target.
You're now like almost running.
You're running through the thing.
At night, your shoot machine guns.
Guess what guys get hit guys go down.
This is even entertaining.
Now you're going to carry him. Well, we're going to carry him.
Who's going to carry him? You are.
What are you going to do? How are you going to carry him?
You're going to there's only one way.
Sure. Okay. There's stretchers.
There's you can you can bring leaders and we certainly bring leaders in the field.
But they take some time to set up.
And you got to get organized to make that happen.
What's going to happen initially is somebody is going to sling that dude on his back.
And by the way, that person that weighs 200 pounds has 80 pounds of gear with him.
So now it's all in 280 pounds.
You're going to put that person on your back and you're going to walk at a high rate of speed through this
Rocky terrain and you're going to do that for another two to three miles to get out.
It's hard that kind of training.
And by the way, this whole time there's no like who y'all.
There's no hey come on. There's no there's no you don't even speak.
It's just in silence.
Yeah. Just go with everyone knows what you have to do.
And so that's why you got to do leg day.
Yeah.
Skip leg day because you're legs. You're legs got to carry that weight.
Going back to the book to return to the march about which everyone bothers themselves to the
death, but will never reach a conclusion unless I reveal a secret.
So he's got a secret about maneuvering troops.
This is this I found this interesting.
Some wish to march slowly.
Others would march fast.
But what about the troops whom no one knows how to make march fast or slowly.
As the desire or is necessary and who require an officer at every corner to make them turn
Like some snails and others are running.
And this is to advance this column, which is always training.
It is a comedy to see even a battalion to commence movements.
So what he's talking about is if you're moving with a unit and this happens with a
even happens with a pool tune.
But it definitely happens when you get bigger elements, you know, a company sized element
where you've got a hundred people that are moving.
It's the caterpillar effect, right?
Like the front moves and then it takes a little while for people to catch up.
And then when they stop at room bumps into them and you end up with this thing that's really, really hard to move.
Yeah.
And this is so this is how he says this is his big secret.
Shall I say it this great word which comprises all the mystery of the art and which
will no doubt be seen as ridiculous?
Have them March in cadence.
That is why these musical marches were instituted and that is why one beats the drum.
It is this which no one knows and no one has perceived.
With this you can march fast or slow as you wish.
The tail will not lose the distance.
All your soldiers will start on the same foot.
The changes of direction will be made together with speed and grace.
And the legs of your soldiers will not get tangled up.
You will not be forced to halt after each turn in order to start off on the same foot.
Your soldiers will not exhaust themselves at quarter as much as that presence.
Now what I thought was interesting about that is it's an obvious answer.
Right? And now clearly you're not going to do that in the modern day military in the field.
But you're not going to play music so guys can march to it.
You can stay in cadence. But I think it's more important to that sometimes we lose things.
We lose methods.
They're in front of our face but we don't understand why they were there.
And I'll tell you I was thinking of a story.
I was running training.
And one of my guys who was one of the assistant platoon commanders in T.
And T. Bruser, great guy, hard to choke, a real long neck.
You can make it happen. You're going to work for it.
Real, well some people might think long neck easy to choke.
No, this was his neck was so long and he was strong too.
He is strong. Long and strong neck. So his neck would like bend and a guillotine.
And he would keep breathing. Yeah, that was that long.
So anyways, we were out at this training site and we were doing his, it was his platoon.
Now he was a platoon commander and they were coming over the beach.
And meaning swimming over the beach and then you go do live fire.
And this really, so they're doing it. They're doing iterations.
And he's coming up on the beach and is a weapons, you know, you, you, when you get to the beach,
your weapons wet sandy because you go through the surf and it's all jacked up.
And then you try and shoot your gun and doesn't work. You got to clean it and just to paint.
And he says, hey, man, do you have any like suggestions on how to get my weapon firing?
Once I get over the beach and I go, yeah, man, don't let it get wet.
And he, and he was kind of, you know, like really? And I said, yeah, don't let it get wet.
Because when you're swimming in, you've got a rock sack.
But the rock sack isn't, it's, it's waterproofed. So it kind of floats.
And so you can put your weapon on top of your rock sack.
And you can kind of keep it dry there. And when you're just swimming, you just keep it.
Now you're not going to keep your weapon completely dry. It's not going to happen.
It's going to get wet.
But the attitude, if you have the attitude that you're trying to keep it dry, you'll keep it 90
percent more dry than you would otherwise. And most important when you come through the beach,
when you come through the waves, you won't let it get the sand in it.
And he kind of looked at me with, you know, a funny face of like, are you serious?
Like, how can you keep it dry? And I said, keep it dry.
Next time I'm watching him, but on night vision, I'm watching him and sure enough,
he is, his weapon barely went in the water.
You got up on the beach and boom, it works. Guess what?
It's an obvious answer.
But sometimes people, we know we just need this, have somebody share the obvious answer
with us so that we can execute.
Yeah.
Yeah, makes sense.
That's crazy. I didn't know that. That marching thing.
Like that's why you marched to Kate and so, remember, it's like, so that catapillar
effects, especially the like shots down the con, actually that's why there's traffic,
by the way.
Yes, that's why the traffic exists because of that little effect.
That's exactly true.
You know, one guy going in the reaction time.
You know, the other funny thing he said in here is he says, go watch people dance.
You see a soldier dance all night, but he can't march for more than an hour without
an entire Quietz that gives him music.
I'm funny.
I didn't want to say that part, but this isn't people start asking me about dancing.
Yeah, yeah.
No talk of dance on the podcast.
Back to the book.
If the previous war had lasted a little longer,
indubably everyone would have fought hand to hand.
This was because the abusive firing began to be appreciated.
It causes more noise than harm and those who depend on it are always beaten.
So what do you need?
I encapsulated a lot of stuff.
What he was talking about was how everyone was so excited to shoot their rifles.
And at this time period, the rifles weren't all that accurate.
And so it was a bunch of noise, but they weren't always that effective.
And it would be better.
And by the way, when you had to shoot your rifle, you had to stop.
So now instead of charging, we're stopping, we're loading, we're firing.
The other rank is firing.
And if the other people are moving on you,
they're going to get close enough and they're going to have no moment.
They're going to overtake you.
They're going to overpower you with what?
With bay and that's in hand to hand combat.
So what I thought was interesting about this is you say,
and hey, all this noise, it's basically noise makers.
For all practical purposes, they're noise makers.
And he's saying, and what I was thinking was,
this goes to be, this to me is very similar to people that are yellow.
Right? You yellow a lot. You were someone that's loud, someone that's always talking to me.
And he says that people who depend on that are always beaten.
And I thought to myself, that's a very accurate statement.
Very accurate statement.
So don't just talk for the purpose of talking.
Right? Don't. If you don't have anything to say, that's fine.
Be quiet. Don't say anything. It's actually good.
Yep.
Here he talks about the Roman legions, the Romans vanquished all nations by their discipline.
No big deal.
They meditated on war constantly, continually.
And they always renounced old customs whenever they found better.
In this respect, they differed from the Gauls,
whom they defeated during several centuries without the latter thinking of correcting their errors.
And this is clearly the Romans. Okay.
We know disciplines important.
Talk about it all the time. But more important lesson here is they always renounced old customs whenever they found better.
Boom.
Renounced the old customs when you find better ones.
This is something you need to do in your life.
Something you need to do in your business.
It's something you need to do on the mat.
And I'll tell you.
Going back to the other part, sometimes there's things in Gigiitu that you find a better way.
And they work for a while.
And then you go back to the old way.
And it works because people are expecting the new way.
The Dean talks to the Dean and say, this is a new old move.
Yeah.
You just sent that to you.
Yeah. This is a new old move.
It worked 10 years ago.
It wouldn't work five years ago because everyone knew it.
Now it'll work again because everyone forgot it.
Yeah. And that's kind of everyone forgot why we use cadence. Why we use music.
Yeah.
We forgot why we don't know how to march now.
And it's essentially the same reason why the new move will work because people are unfamiliar.
Yeah.
Because you know you have a certain attack or whatever.
And then the more people know about that attack, the harder it is to be successful with it.
And then you find some new variation that not everyone knows.
That's the football game kind of was like that too for a little bit.
And then after a while, all those fundamentals which work essentially the early version of the move, whatever.
That's still there.
But we got this new unrevealed move that's getting everyone because they're unfamiliar.
It's like a surprise kind of.
Yeah.
But they're just unfamiliar.
And then now everyone gets familiar with it.
And it's like, cause okay move.
Yeah.
But the real good one was that original though.
G1.
Yeah.
But everyone just got used to it.
And then once everyone gets used to the new one, they'll get about the old one.
Yeah.
For sure.
Correct and improve.
We now to old customs whenever you find better.
Now he's talking a little bit about peace time.
And how you maintain your army during peace time.
He says, as for the cavalry, it should never be touched.
I mean, you shouldn't get rid of any cavalry people.
The old troopers and the old horses are the good.
And the recruits of either are absolutely useless.
It is a burden and it is an expense, but is indispensable.
In regard to the infantry, as long as there are few old heads, you can do what you want with the tails.
So a horseman is you got the skilled horse and you got the skilled horse rider.
And he says in this, I don't know if I'll read it, but he says also in here takes ten years to make a good.
A good cavalryman, good guy that's really good on the horse with a really good horse takes ten years to make them.
So you can't just get rid of that person.
But an infantryman, if you got some good, this is what I like about it.
If you've got good leadership, good leadership with infantrymen, hey man, there's some fundamental skills you're going to need to learn.
It will be ready to rock and roll, which is awesome.
Good leadership goes a long way.
I mean, and again, you have to have, it takes a lot of takes the same amount of time to make a good infantry leader.
Because those are skills that take a long time to develop, they become a leader of infantry troops.
But your basic combat riflemen, you can make them pretty quick.
Not like it's a hell of a lot easier than making someone that can ride a horse.
So, and then your leadership's going to go a long way.
Back to the book, in attacking infantry, the two rear ranks are to lower their pikes.
In this position, the pikes will extend from six to seven feet ahead of the front rank.
The front ranks being sheltered in such a manner will, I am sure, aim with more confidence than if they had nothing in front of them.
Besides this, the third rank can ward off blows and defend the first rank,
which will do much better since it is covered by the first two ranks.
The second rank, which is armed with muskets, can fire and defend the man in front of him in the first rank without the latter being obliged to stoop.
This avoids a serious disadvantage, which is incurred in kneeling a dangerous movement,
because men who are afraid prefer this position, they cannot be made to get up and is always necessary to halt to kneel.
According to my formation, all the men are covered each by each other with reciprocal confidence.
The front presents a forest of spears that are parents is formidable and gives confidence to your own troops because they feel it's power.
So, a couple of interesting things are obviously to cover move situation and we're going to work that out, but I thought beyond that it was interesting that if you're going to take a knee,
well there's two things that are happening. Number one, you have to stop to take a knee. We're not advancing on our knees.
And number two, people in a fray, they want to be down there. It's going to be hard to get him back up, so don't even let him get down there.
Keep that momentum going.
We're looking to keep that momentum going.
Back to the book, those who imagine that, and I think I state this every time usually around this point in the podcast,
I'm skipping a lot of the book. It's just the way it is. We're not going to read the whole book on here.
You have to order it yourself if you want to hear every secret of sex.
Those who imagine that the Roman legions were composed of Romans from Rome are very much deceived. They came from all the nations in the world,
but their composition, their discipline, and their methods of fighting were better than all those other nations.
This is why they conquered them all.
Neither were they conquered in their turn until this discipline had to generate it among the Romans.
Discipline will get you a long way and lack of discipline will get you killed, disintegrated.
It disintegrated.
Talking more about cavalry here, the cavalry should be active and mounted on horses in nerd to fatigue.
It should be encumbered with as little baggage as possible, and above all should not make the common error of having fat horses.
If they could see an enemy every day it would only be better for this would soon put them in condition to attempt anything.
It is certain that the power of cavalry is not understood why, because of we have love for fat horses.
I had a regiment of German cavalry in Poland, with which I marched more than 1,500 leagues in 18 months.
I maintained that this regiment was more fit for service at the end of this time than another supplied with fat horses.
But to reach this condition they must be gradually accustomed to hardship and hardened by hunts and violent exercise.
This will maintain their health and increase their endurance, likewise it will make cavalrymen of the troopers and give them a martial bearing.
So you got to train hard.
I just read all that to basically say you got to train hard.
You're going to be ready to fight, you got to train how you fight.
And don't get on a fat horse apparently.
I have to ask my wife about that once she knows more about horses than me or life.
Sure.
Life knows about horses, he's from Texas.
Everyone from Texas ride to horse.
Is that the image?
Yes.
When I would go overseas, people from everyone in America is basically carrying a pistol on them at all times.
That's the image that people have of America.
I like that image for people that have America too.
I mean, I'm certain people don't like that image, but, yeah, you know, be nice when you come here.
You can want to come and visit that school.
We welcome visitors.
Just be nice.
Everyone's carrying a 45 in their back pocket.
Yeah.
Can you carry a 45 in your back pocket?
You could.
Would it recommend it?
No, wouldn't recommend it.
You get a holster.
Yeah, yeah.
So back.
But it's more of an expression.
No, no, it's not even expression.
But if you go to another country, they think that we've just got them in our back pocket.
Yeah.
Like you carry a wallet in a 45.
What?
Next question.
You see what I'm going from here?
Yes.
So we roll in America.
I do not back to the book.
I do not know why armor has been laid aside for nothing is either so useful or ornamental.
If it be considered how many troopers perished by the sword and how many are, how many many are dangerously wounded by random and weak shots,
accident against which armor guarantees protection, one cannot avoid acknowledging the benefits of it.
It is nothing but indulence and relaxation of discipline that caused it to be laid aside.
It is worrisome to carry a queer ass and a trail pike and trail a pike half a century to use it a single day.
But as soon as discipline is neglected in a nation as soon as comfort becomes an aim,
it needs no inspiration to fratell that ruin is near.
The Romans conquered all peoples by their discipline.
In the measure that it became corrupted, their success decreased when the emperor aggression permitted the legions to quit their curasses and helmets because the soldiers complained they were too heavy,
they were always lost, the ballbarians who they had defeated during so many centuries, vanquished them.
That's all.
That's all people stop wearing their armor because it's heavy.
Body armor is heavy.
Your helmet is heavy.
You want that little tiny helmet?
You want the back plate of our body armor?
You want that?
Yeah, because they were like dang.
Yeah, we're not going to happen.
We like maneuverable.
That's the thing you say.
Yeah.
It's like skipping your work out and saying, well, I need to rest it.
Kind of the same thing.
Very similar.
Yeah, obviously as soon as discipline is neglected in a nation, guess what's the same thing with your personal life?
Obviously.
Back to the book, the troopers should have a goat skin bottle like those used in hauntries instead of a cantine or a barrel to hold liquor's in.
This with his linen stockings cap and cord and a few other necessities to be put in the bottom of the sack, which will roll up with his coat and can be fastened with two straps behind him.
This will reduce the monstrous load which is now carried by the cavalry.
It is necessary from time to time to inspect the baggage and force the men to throw away useless items.
I have frequently done it.
One can hardly imagine all the trash they carry with them year after year.
The poor horse has to carry everything. It is no exaggeration to say that I have filled 20 wagons with useless rubbish, which I have found in the review of a single regimen.
So people will tend to carry a lot.
A lot that they don't need.
And that weighs down on you.
I think I've talked about this before, but the back in the park and the do we had these winter pool tunes, which I never did one out on the east coast.
These winter pool tunes.
And you are going long distance on cross country skis.
You know those are long long distances.
You are basically running a marathon.
And so the guys were super anal about the weight that they carried.
So they would, you know the backpack has a strap that you pull, you pull the tight.
And then they get it to the port where it was supposed to be. Give it a little bit of a second and cut the rest off and sew it.
So they don't want to carry that little extra 4 inches of nylon.
Not going to do it.
They had every piece of gear that they had would be like that.
The winter warriors, a team to pro-cada-tune.
Here's an interesting thing.
In passing through water, the horses must never be allowed to drink.
A man who holds the water as horse will stop a whole army.
When this happens, the officers should hasten to the spot.
And instead of fruitless reprimands and ill-timed mercy, they should instantly chastize the offender.
Nothing is of such importance for the preservation of the cavalry.
Otherwise, the affection, the men they have for their horses,
will have them halting, little or much.
And then it is impossible for them to recover their ranks without galloping.
Discipline.
People get that little affection for their, not just, you know,
I was thinking horses are I was thinking about being on a long patrol or in the workplace.
You want your team to go.
And every time you grant that little bit of mercy, right?
Am I saying be merciless, Raver?
No, but when you do it, you start to develop that trend and now it throws other things off.
Sometimes you just got to be, hey, no, be quiet and execute.
Yeah, got to go.
Got to go.
In time of peace and in winter, quarters in time of war,
their horses should be kept in condition by violent exercise or runs at least three times a week.
I like this idea of violent exercise.
I'm going to start doing more violent exercise.
Yeah, that's good.
Like violent exercising.
The same severe usage is also proper for the heavy cavalry charge at those times.
It is in the field.
It is only in the field that they must be managed carefully to keep them in flesh and the squadrons complete and strong.
And this is interesting.
The best chance of teaching them to stand fire is when the infantry is practicing.
They should advance on the fire and walk.
And be kept calm, accustomed, accustomed them to go closer and closer.
They should never be beaten but stroked and encouraged.
Encouraged in the space of a month.
They will be so accustomed to it that they will even put their nose on the muscle of the muskets without any fright or surprise.
Then they are all right.
Nevertheless, they should not be allowed to approach too close for once.
They get burned.
You will not be able to bring them near again.
This ordeal must be reserved for the day of battle.
That was good.
That to me reminded me of what Jordan Peterson was talking about and where the warrior kid, how you slowly
and accumulate people.
You don't throw them into the, you don't bring them right up to the firing line and start shooting the guns and let them get freaked out horribly.
You bring them a little distance.
You let them listen from afar.
And then we'll make closer and next thing you know they're good to go.
They're standing in line.
What do you call that?
What did Jordan Peterson call that?
Exposure.
Yeah, great.
Exposure therapy.
Exposure.
Yeah.
Graduated.
Exposure therapy.
Something.
Something like that.
I'm telling you.
Cover move.
A little bit of that.
I am convinced every unit that is not supported is a defeated organization.
Infantry should always be supported by cavalry and cavalry by infantry.
Cover move.
Work together.
Support.
Here's a little note.
Back to the book.
The general or commander in chief of an army should have a standard to be carried ahead of him as a mark of his rank.
So he's talking about flags.
This is this also has a purpose.
Anyone searching for him will know instantly where to find him, especially in battle.
I'm the troops seeing the standard will know that the general is observing them.
So one thing we did.
And they do in the military is they you when you're giving your brief on how the mission is going to go.
Your brief location of leadership.
There's a guys we're going to take down these eight buildings.
I'll be here in this building on the top floor.
Boom.
So if you need me, no order to come find me.
So it happens.
Hey, where's this platoon leader going to be?
Yep.
Once we get our targets here, I'm going to come over here.
I'm going to stay on the backside with a breach took place if you need me.
That's where I'll be.
So everyone's got to know where everyone is.
And you see talking about like having a standard that's like a symbol.
It's a flag.
Yeah.
And actual flags.
You don't really want to do that.
Because isn't there like a thing?
Yes.
That's saying like, hey, you don't want it like I, what was it?
I don't say Stephen Primer.
I ain't like don't salute.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, whatever.
Because I don't want to enemy to see where.
Yeah, you definitely don't want to mark your position.
Right.
Like, yeah, well, these guys are doing their own things.
And as a matter of fact, and I'm trying to think of what book we recently did where he was talking about.
Like, yeah, if you're seen running around, if you're a radio man or you're seen running around giving direction, you're going to get shot.
Yeah.
The officer that I think it was, I think it was, I think it was the battle line drink.
But yeah, they're talking about that.
Oh, yeah.
It definitely was the battle line drink.
It was because when they were leaving, they said like within within minutes, the leaders had been killed.
Yeah.
The radio man had been killed.
The ones that were still with their elements.
So yeah, that's not something you want to do.
But what we would do is brief where we're going to be.
So that everyone on the team knew based on a terrain feature.
Yeah.
You know, hey, here's this building or here's this null of this mountain or here's this intersection is road.
That's where I'll be.
That's where I'm, that's where I'm planning to be.
So now people know where you are.
Yeah.
Makes sense.
I mean, he had an additional thing there when he said, so that you know the general's watching.
Kind of thing, I guess that wouldn't really apply to your situation.
No, no, yeah.
It wouldn't apply.
Although, like in the military, when the general is visiting and as a two star general, they raise a two star flag.
Yeah.
So there it is.
So okay.
So I guess yeah, you're right.
So it'll be real circumstantial like during the war.
Yeah.
You're not that old.
You're not doing that.
Yeah.
Now we talked about the companies.
And again, he calls them centuries, which is basically a company sized element of around a hundred guys.
And he's saying that they should have their own little symbols as well and their own standards.
Back to the book.
If the standards are distinguished by their different colors, the actions of every century will be conspicuous.
This will create the greatest emulation because both officers and soldiers will know that they are seen.
And that their countenance conduct and behavior are not ignored by the rest of the army.
The man as well as the officers will tell of it in the field and in garrison, their exploits will be constant, the constant subject of conversation.
I thought that was kind of a cool idea.
You know, if you're, if you're flying the flag, then people are watching you.
And so you better act.
You better come correct.
It represents.
Yeah.
You better represent.
Actually, I like come correct.
There's a, come correct.
Yeah.
Come correct.
Hmm.
Back to the book.
After the organization of military troops, military discipline is the first matter that presents itself.
It is the soul of armies.
Hmm.
That is such a nice ring to it.
It's the soul of the individual as well, but I suppose we'll talk about that later.
Back to the book.
If it is not established with wisdom and maintained with unshakable resolution, you'll have no soldiers.
Regiments and armies will be only contemptible, armed mobs, more dangerous to their own country than the enemy.
It is a false idea that discipline, subordination, and slaveish obedience, debase, courage.
It has always been noted that it is with those armies in which the severest discipline is enforced, that the greatest deeds are performed.
Many generals believe that they have done everything as soon as they have issued orders and that they are, and they order a great deal because they find many abuses.
So he's saying they're like, when a general feels like, they talk about a bad general, when a general feels like they've done everything as soon as they've given their order.
And since that's what they do, they give all kinds of orders.
I'm not order you to do this anymore.
Or do you do that?
I'm not order you to use something else.
Here's what he says.
This is a false principle.
Proceeding in this fashion, they will never reestablish discipline in an army in which it has been lost or weakened.
Few orders are best.
But they should be followed up with care.
Negligence should be punished without partiality and without distinction of rank or birth otherwise you will make yourself hated.
One can be exact and just.
And beloved at the same time is feared.
Severity must be accompanied with kindness, but this should not have the appearance of pretense, but of goodness.
And this is just a little note I thought everyone should know.
Whippings need not be severe.
The more moderate they are, the more quickly will abuse is be remedied since all the world will join in ending them.
So even when you're whipping your people, you know, be a little bit more judicious.
We have a, this is, this is good too.
We have a pernacious custom in France of always punishing with death.
A soldier called pillaging is hunger.
The result, now what do you think the result of that would be that he's going to say?
I'm quizzing you.
Which you're saying, somebody?
If you, if you are pillaging, compilaging, you're going to get hung.
What do you think the, what do you think it happens because that happens to who?
What do you think, do you think, do you think, why should we not hang people for pillaging?
Do you think there's a lot of pillaging going on if you get caught pillaging, they hang you or your fellow soldiers?
Do you think they pillage?
I say no.
Okay.
You're wrong.
The result is that no one arrest him because they do not want to cause the death of a poor devil who is only trying to
live.
If instead we were only turned him over to the guard to be put in chains and can have to
bread and water for one to three months or put to work in at any of the labors that always have to be done in any army.
And then they were sent to his regiment before a battle or when the general wished, everyone would agree with this punishment and the officers of the patrols would arrest them by the hundreds.
Soon there would be no pillaging because everyone would join in putting it under control.
So, that makes sense.
Yeah, that is.
The reason I asked you that which I don't normally do is because I thought the same thing.
I was like, oh, where's he going with this?
Oh, yeah, it's obvious.
Once you think about it, you're not going to report one of your guys for stealing something if the punishment was death.
But you know what that is?
That's like small picture versus big pictures.
Small picture is like, yeah, because you just look at it as yourself.
You get your bubble in your head.
I wouldn't pillage if it was death.
I wouldn't pillage.
You're looking at it, but no, big picture is like, apply that to everyone.
I'll apply it to the whole community.
Exactly right.
If you tell on this guy pillaging, you just sent his team to death.
If you tell on him, maybe you turn him in and whatever that's what you did.
Good point.
And I just remembered somebody pointed out to me, you remember rifleman Harris and it starts off when my rifleman Harris asked to execute a guy.
And I said, I said on the podcast, hey, this guy is getting executed basically for
deserves and being drunk. What I didn't realize is it's somebody sent me an email or a social media message.
They said, hey, the reason that guy was getting executed was because he had taken the money for like 16
Enlistments and kept disappearing.
So when you get a signing bonus, hey, here's here's, here's, there's probably nothing, but you know, here's here's 10
or 10, 10, quit or pound sterling or whatever. Here's 10 pounds sterling. Oh, you're joining the army. Cool. Here's 10 and then you take that money.
Go get drunk and get crazy.
And then you do it again. And then you do it again in a different area because they have no internet.
They have no way of knowing that this is the guy when they finally catch him. He's getting sent to death.
Now, do I think you should get sent to death, even for that?
Not really.
But he was doing something more severe than what I had mentioned on the podcast.
So I just wanted to, while I'm thinking about that set the record straight.
But the main point here for me is the secondary effects, right? You think you're going to have the primary effect is, oh, if we do this, no one's going to, if we're going to kill you, if you get caught pillaging, no one's going to, no one's going to pillage anymore.
No, actually no one's going to report it anymore because your punishment is too strong.
This is also how this is also how and why when people think that, oh, if someone's in the military, the soldiers just do it, they're told wrong.
The soldiers actually, they're secondary effects. Oh, you're going to kill the guys, no, we're not going to report it then.
Yeah. So there's secondary effects, even though they've been ordered to do that and their soldiers now have discipline. They've been trained.
He's bragging about discipline all the time. Guess what? They don't call that order because the order sucks.
And that's what we got to remember. Not just about the military, but about business too.
You give people dumb orders or you give people things that don't make sense. They're not really going to execute it the way you'd want them to.
And I'll tell you something else, you don't want them to execute that way because if they got hundreds of people pillaging and you now end up murdering hundreds of own your own people, you're affecting your own army, you're going to get deserves.
Yeah. I'm going to work in an army like that. The same thing with the business.
You start laying out severe punishment.
Punishment that doesn't make sense isn't reciprocal to the crime that was committed.
I mean, you pillage thinking about what pillaging is. I took some bread from the store.
Cool. We're going to shoot these ahead.
The punishment did not fit the crime in that case.
All right.
Eight. He's talking about where to build where to build tactical positions.
And he says, and this is just the same thing. He said earlier about people, but he's talking about.
Basically talking about terrain now. Nature is infinitely stronger than the works of man. Why not profit from it?
Using use a river, use a hill, use terrain to build your defensive positions. Don't just use a shovel.
Same thing that he talked about earlier with with human beings.
Now another piece.
Many persons believe that his advantage is to take the field early.
And this is coming right back. Suns who are to war be their first sex.
Maybe doesn't agree with that a little bit here. They are right when there's a question of seizing an important post.
Otherwise, it seems to me that there is no need to hasten in that one should remain in winter quarters longer than usual.
So he goes on to talk winter quarters means you're going to go out in the field.
Well, we're going to go out in the field now.
We're going to be cold wet miserable for the next three days while we wait for the enemy to show up. And now they show up fresh.
Who's going to do better in the battle?
So just to think about, I used to say, the military used to say all the time, you know, you got to be forward leaning.
You heard that expression? Yeah, you got to be forward leaning.
And I would say, let's not be so forward leaning that we're in the leaning rest of the leaning rest is the push-up position,
which they would leave you in for a long periods of time.
A lot of different training situations.
So sometimes you get so proactive to get so leaning forward, a forward leaning that you're in the leaning rest and you're wasting energy, just trying to be prepared.
Like, you see some guys warm up. You do such a good warm up that your tires.
You win so far forward leaning, you're in the leaning rest.
And then the other thing is to not warm up at all, now you're not ready. So you've got to find the way you get that's a guy.
God of the leadership, you've got to find the balance between those two.
Yeah.
Another good point here, back to the book. It is absolutely necessary to a custom soldiers to labor.
If we examine Roman history, we find, we shall find that
Republic looked on ease and indolence as the most formidable enemies.
The consoles prepared their legions for battle by rendering them indiphatekbon.
Rather than have them idle, they employed them on unnecessary works.
Continual exercise makes good soldiers because it qualifies them for military duties by being habituated to pain.
They insensibly learn to despise danger.
The transition from fatigue to rest,
and renovates them, meaning weakens them. They compare one state with another.
And idleness, that predominant passion of mankind gains a tendency over them.
They then murmur at every trifling inconvenience, and their souls soften in their amasculated bodies.
So what he's saying is, people get used to the soft ways, people get used to the easy life.
And if you let him get used to it, when you want to do something hard, when it's time to do something hard, you're not ready for it.
Every minute that Charlie's out in the bush getting stronger.
Every time I'm saying every day at night, I'm spending this hotel to apocalypse now.
Every night I'm sitting in the hotel getting softer, every night, Charlie's out in the bush getting stronger.
That's what he's talking about here.
But now, do I agree with having people do unnecessary works?
No, I don't because people see right through that, and it's just you're just being stupid and taking...
They're going to see that. They're going to say, why are we doing this?
Take the whole Philip back up, take the whole Philip back up. No, don't do that.
But you know what we're going to do? Training exercise?
We're going to get stronger, we're going to get...
We're going to dig all, we're going to put, you know, set it up for a perimeter,
then we're going to move to another situation. If we have to back away or collapse our perimeter,
because when you collapse a perimeter, you've got to fill that whole back in, otherwise in the end,
it becomes a tack you. They use it.
So you've got to fill that whole back in. So let's run a real drill.
And by the way, let's make it into a little contest and see how fast we can dig in.
And then once we get it dug in, we're going to set up, we're going to see how fast we can collapse it,
get it filled back in. We're doing it at the end of it.
We're going to give out some, you know, surprises and have a beer.
It's a good tactic, by the way, like to make a,
what a big game, or a big game.
You totally gave it for us. Game of Thrones. Game of Thrones. Game of Thrones. Game of Thrones. Game of Thrones. Game of Thrones. Game of Thrones. Game of Hikation.
Game of Hikation. Like if you're moving, you know, when you're moving, yeah, you're house-water.
And how fast can I get this stuff packed up?
Yeah, let me use it as a little workout, little metcon,
we got to move all these boxes upstairs, two floors, whatever.
I mean, use it as a workout.
It kind of makes it more enjoyable as well.
But at the same time, you get the results of a little workout right there.
Here, let me ask you this about that when you said you didn't agree with the unnecessary
unnecessary works.
So what about push-ups as punishment?
For example, or a cat or exercise?
That's an interesting one because I think, I think, like with kids, if you make
burpees uponishment, they don't like it.
Like, if you make it a reward, they like them.
And you better off.
Yeah, agree. I do that by the way.
Yeah, that's good. You make it a reward.
Yeah, like, wow.
Only the cool people do burpees.
That's what they see dead-dim burpees, dead-dim, you know, these whatever exercise.
Yeah, only cool people do it.
I kind of push-harm on that too, but it's unfair.
But no, the question is, though, in the military, in the military.
Not kids.
No, calisthenics are definitely punishment in the military.
Yeah, straight up.
And it's not until you transition out of the boot camp series
and you get away from that. Now, in the seal teams, like, they don't,
you don't do calisthenics as punishment.
I will say that if you mess up, like, for instance,
when I was running training, if the guys performed poorly,
they were going to have more down to men.
Again, this is a training.
I'm talking about fake down men, but they're going to have more men that
couldn't walk.
That's more men that have to be carried.
That's punishment.
If it's own right.
If you, when I was running a communications course,
when I was a younger, enlisted seal,
if you missed a communications window,
you had to walk a longer distance.
If you missed multiple, you're going to have to walk tragic distances.
But that wasn't just a natural result of you missing missing.
Did you impose that for your imposed?
Yes, you were imposed and they knew it was imposed.
Yeah, okay.
And so yeah, if you miss in the seal teams,
if you miss the extraction point with a boat coming to pick you up after a dive,
well, now you've got to swim to the new, exactly.
New pick up point.
Guess what?
The new pick up point isn't close.
Yeah.
Because you've compromised now.
You're above the surface.
You need to get away.
Yeah.
And so that means you've got to swim in extra,
you know, maybe it's an extra hour of surface swimming with a rig on.
It's not fun, but I know.
I've done some fun.
Yeah, because you can't, you're not just, you're not just having fun.
Right?
It's called trouble backing.
You're laying on your back because it's really awkward.
It's, it's, it's comfortable to dive with our dive rig.
We have a dive rig.
That's, it's called a rebreether.
Yeah.
And it goes on your chest and it's small.
It's not, it's not tiny.
Close, it's close, circuit.
Yeah, look at you.
Look at you.
Big time.
So it's a close, circuit dive rig.
But when it runs out, you can't,
it doesn't work anymore.
So you have to swim.
And we do something called turtle back generally.
We just basically are laying on your back and you're just
offending and it takes a long time to move very far.
And it's not comfortable.
So the punishment is in training.
If you miss your extraction point, that's fine.
Just got to swim to the alternate extraction point.
Your alternate extraction point is not going to be closed by.
Yeah.
Because you screwed up.
Same thing with if you miss your helicopter extraction,
because you took too long on target and you got bogged down.
It took you long time to move all these down people.
That's, I mean, it happens.
We understand that.
But now you have to walk to the secondary extraction point,
which happens to be six kilometers up a hill.
Yeah.
See, but that's to me and this me thinking whatever.
10 seconds about it.
That seems like that makes perfect sense.
In fact, that seems like a cool little strategy because
in real life, that's how it works.
Yes.
You miss the bus.
You ride the bus to school.
You're walking to school or writing it by whatever.
It's kind of that thing.
That's how life deals it to you.
A lot of the time.
Like these types of things.
What you're saying.
Yeah.
But let's say, hey, you know, your shoes aren't shine or whatever.
I don't know.
We don't shine.
Give me 50 push-ups.
Yeah, no, they don't do that.
They don't do it in the seal teams.
They definitely do it in the army.
They definitely do it in the Rangers.
They're dropping down all the time.
Right.
But no, we don't do that.
So that's the question.
Do you agree with that or do you think about that kind of stuff?
I don't think about that kind of stuff.
Yeah, I think being, I would say that I, that I would not do it.
Yeah.
When I was in a military leadership position, just because I would rather,
I don't know.
Yeah, it's weird.
It feels like it, like, just like, you're...
Okay, make sense when I know that the army runs it that way.
It makes sense.
And by the way, when the army does it,
and I shouldn't even say anything else about the way the army does it.
Because I'm not, I don't know exactly how they implement that strategy.
So next time we have Tim Kennedy on, we'll get him to give us a full debrief on that.
We'll get another, another range run here to give us a full debrief on that.
Here's something.
So I was watching this show, this random show me my wife before we were married.
When we were just dating whatever, we'd watch these random shows.
And it was a kind of like a reality show, kind of like a competition show,
but it was, I think, army, like, you know, you grab regular people,
put them in army scenario, you give them like missions, and it's like...
Because they have a major, they have a best range, or every year they have a best range of competition,
which is a really hardcore competition.
Yeah.
Well, it's, you know what, it's a lot like the FTX, a lot like that,
but it's a whole, like, you know, you're there for like a month or whatever.
And same, but a lot of drill sergeant type situations,
dropping in me 20, 50, whatever, right?
So it was towards the end of the season and whatever.
And this girl was like, she was like, dang, look how strong and muscular my arms are now.
Just from all the push-ups we had to do in stuff like that.
Just by happenstents, sure she was getting punished, sure she was learning to,
you know, follow directions more meticulously and all the stuff that you learn from, you know,
the whole, you know, orders versus punishment situation.
But as kind of a byproduct, if you will, she has some physical strength now.
You know, you wonder if that has something to do with it?
Oh, no, definitely, you're definitely making people stronger.
There's no doubt about it.
Yeah, that's all positive for sure.
Yeah, there's no doubt the great byproduct of of calistening,
because punishment is, you get stronger.
Yeah.
But like in the, in the seals, it's weird, it's weird.
It's not a thing.
Yeah.
Like, okay, you're going to drop down and give me 50, like that literally,
I never saw that happen a single,
it might happen with new guys sometimes, like,
you're a new guy that you're not getting through.
Okay, guess what?
But even with new guys, if you really want to get through to new guy,
what you want them to be good at is tactics, not pushups.
People in teams, you're supposed to do pushups on your own man.
Yeah, that's kind of what it seems like.
We're not in here to teach you how to do pushups.
Like, you need to, you need to be in shape.
But we seem to like get better things to do.
Yes.
But at the same time, you can't help but wonder,
maybe that's just like, that's a certain way of looking at it,
which is good.
It seems obvious seems effective to me,
but what if there's something like that,
you know, like something from back in the day,
some old school, fundamental principle that that's kind of why you do it.
That's super maybe, maybe that's why in the teams,
they don't do it because they want you to be self-disciplined.
Yeah, not like specificity.
Yeah, not self, not disciplined by the group, but post.
But yeah, you don't want to impose discipline.
And just so, well, regardless,
I think that you should train hard
because you don't want to have your soul get soft
and inside of your amazculated body.
That just sounds like something I don't want to be a part of.
It's all keep training.
Back to the book, there is more skill in one might think,
then one might think in making poor dispositions,
potentially, but one must be able to change them into good ones.
And an instant, so he's talking about how you set yourself up in a bad position.
Only to let the enemy try and maneuver on that,
but you're waiting for him, he's already in do something,
you change your position and do something good.
Like in Gigiitsu when you let someone set up a triangle,
but you're just trying to pass their guard.
Yeah, nothing is more disconcerting to the enemy.
He has counted on a certain thing,
has disposed himself accordingly,
and at the instant of attacking, it is changed.
So this is pretty cool, right?
This is a good thing to remember.
I like what he talked about is psychological effect
that it has on the enemy.
So the enemy sees something,
they expect something,
they want something to go a certain way,
so they arrange themselves for it,
and then right, when they're getting ready to execute,
they realize it wasn't what they thought,
and he says there's nothing more disconcerting,
and I'd say that's true with a person too.
You know, with the unexpected is what disturbs people,
especially, you see this all-time in MMA,
where a guy gets close to his submission,
and then the guy gets out,
and he expends it to the general,
you can see the moral draining from their face,
when it's bad, he's bad sometimes.
Dude, something.
He goes on, I repeat,
nothing confuses him so greatly,
and leads him into more serious faults.
If he does not change his disposition,
he will be defeated.
And if he changes them in the presence of the enemy,
he will still be defeated.
Human spirit cannot meet it.
I'm trying to think of how that affects someone's sight.
Oh, yeah, it affects, it definitely affects your psychological,
like you throw the, you think you're going to get this person
to try and go, you put it on there,
and then almost on boom, you realize,
it's not just that you missed the triangle,
it's a realized that you got played.
You got played, you got set right up.
And that doesn't feel good,
and that can definitely hurt your morale.
Yeah, yeah, big.
That's a little different than just missing the move.
When you realize you got set, actually,
that it messes up your whole game, so,
okay, so you're always still, right?
Yeah.
So that's, I don't want to say that's his whole game,
but that's his game right there.
So, like if you go, you know,
side control or amount or whatever,
he has dangerous moves.
He wants you there.
One, yes, exactly.
So it's like, and every once in a while,
you get rolling with him like kind of hard.
It'll seem like he's trying to defend the mount,
but he's really letting you think that you got the mount.
Right? You know, because even if you're like,
if someone's letting you mount, you know,
they're letting you mount.
And if they're going to spring some sort of a trap,
it's going to be more obvious if they're letting you do it.
But you get them where he kind of lets you do it to the point
where you don't realize he's letting me in.
Yeah, you just got and then he came in.
And then after while he keeps doing stuff like that,
you're like,
I don't even really want to do anything to him.
Because he's just going to set me,
this is just a bunch of traps right now.
So it messes up your whole game.
You can't do anything.
Yeah.
On your own accord though,
it's not like he's preventing you from doing anything.
Yeah.
It's like you're preventing yourself now.
That's a situation you have to deal with.
But actually, actually, I figured it out.
I figured out an,
I didn't figure it out.
I figured out a method to deal with just that whole scenario
within, by the way.
And he even like asked me afterwards.
So I was like, Oh, I was going hard.
And I was like, you know how you get real like weary.
Like, okay, I know he's gonna send me a source real uneven for real.
So I was like, hey, let's go roll again.
And then I just loosened up and basically allowed him to spring
whatever trap he wants.
And he did all this stuff and he was like,
hey, you were rolling a lot later in that time.
I was like, no, bro, I'm just trying to,
I'm trying to turn on the lights to all your traps that he said.
You know, so it's kind of like that thing.
It's comes with like the type of training like you can't
regard the training as a competition.
Yeah, you know, you gotta go and it should be like otherwise
you're not learning anything.
Yeah.
But man, you know, in a war battle or in a competition scenario,
it's like, you know, can you a big day?
I'm trying to think if I ever got played like that on the battlefield.
You know, sometimes we'd hit a target.
And it was real obvious that, you know, we had been.
I wouldn't say set up, but like there's no one there.
Like clearly the information that we got was wrong.
And you'd be kind of like, you know,
be like, man, that wasn't good.
Yeah, and really at a real rudimentary level,
that's what an idea is, you know,
it's like, you want to make it look like a trash cannon or a regular
something you have to address or something like that.
You know, some a place where you have to go anyway,
the road.
I don't know what a real simple level that's kind of what that is.
So now you're like, shoot, now we got to be weary of everyday things.
Normal protocol.
We got to be weary of that.
Yeah, that's a digger on the psychology for sure.
Back to the book.
I do not care for either one.
Oh, sorry.
It says lines in entrenchment.
So he's talking about lines in entrenchment,
meaning defensive positions.
I do not care for either the one or the other of these works.
When I hear talk of lines,
I always think I am hearing of talk of the walls of China.
The good ones are those that nature has made,
and the good entrenchments are good dispositions
and brave soldiers.
Again, just capitalizing on nature and saying that brave soldiers
are more important than your position.
Man always fears the consequences of day and night.
The consequences of danger more than danger itself.
Totally true.
When, and I'll tell you what's equally,
or you could throw in there is the, the anticipation of danger.
It's probably the worst thing.
Yeah.
You know, I see this, I see a lot of kids on the wrestling mat right now.
It's the wrestling season.
Yeah.
And you can see the kids get nervous before they get on the map.
They want to get on the map.
They're in the game.
Yeah.
And now you're now you're doing your job.
But the anticipation of what could happen.
Yeah.
Trust people crazy.
When is that?
Because you got it, you felt that before.
We're, you know, back to day when we were competing.
Yeah.
Like, and you get to turn them into a worse, especially back.
Actually, you're one of your last competitions
was my first competition.
Right away.
Yeah.
Where was that?
In LA, it was called like the Pan Amps, a submission grappling.
It wasn't the Pan Amps, Pan Amps.
It was like, I think like submission grappling.
It was no good.
How did I do?
I don't know.
I don't remember.
Yeah.
I remember seeing all the pictures because one of the,
It's funny.
One of like, it's not like tournament.
It was tournament.
Yeah.
So remember Alicia photos.
I remember that.
Who ran it?
Who had the tournament?
I have no idea.
I didn't even know there was tournaments.
And I saw one.
Or, or, or,
Brand at the time was like, yeah, the tournament.
I was like, oh, we can have tournaments.
I was like, boom.
So I just jumped on it.
What was the iconic photo?
I say it's iconic.
Because it's a kind of a long-term.
It's a long word.
It's a very strong.
It's not iconic at all actually.
But it's, yeah, I'm so I'm, we,
I have this guy.
His name is Jim.
You probably know him.
Jim.
He, I have him in a, it's not an American.
It's a straight arm lock.
Mm-hmm.
And I wound up tapping him out.
And Alicia photos.
So that was the photographer at the time.
I mean, I had a really good picture of it.
It was such a good picture.
It was in the front of her website.
The picture, right?
That's why I call it iconic photo.
You know, full on.
Not this.
Everyone knows that photo.
Everyone.
They probably do if they're just competing back at the day.
If they know Alicia photos.
Anyway, the full on like novice division.
Right.
I was like, I had been trained for two months twice a week,
by the way.
For two months from full month.
Um, still just dominating out there.
Look at you.
Yeah.
But no, I, I actually lost.
I lost my first match.
Took third.
None of us.
Doesn't matter.
Um, so I know that you did it because when I was looking through the pictures,
it was you compete.
I think you're competing against like so good.
You are somebody.
I think for.
But I remember you.
People can soak it.
Yeah.
Well, it was maybe, I don't know some other black guy.
But I don't know.
I remember it was you because I remember like,
Yeah.
You.
I'll have to check that out.
No, no, no.
I have to explore that.
But, uh, what was the point?
Oh, yeah.
Waiting for the match is like,
that's the nerve.
Yeah.
Like rolling, even when you step on the match,
and you see the guy in front of you getting right right,
that's not nerve-racking at all.
That's like every day you see that.
There was a iconic picture of Sarge.
This is pretty iconic.
And he, it was going against.
One of the Gracies kids.
So it was.
Hender or think it was how like with a holiday.
And he's, but he's double like him.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Sarge has got like the savage double.
It's another thing where I see these.
Brian, we're talking about Brian Sarge and one of my buddies who has a
judicial school in Connecticut.
It's called Jitu Life.
But he has, he's a good wrestler.
But when I see these kids, and he, he wrestled at Powerway High School,
which is, uh, one of the best wrestling high schools.
Maybe in the country.
I mean, it's definitely incredible program.
And he went there and wrestled there.
And I see occasionally I'll see a kid that just has Sarge's attitude.
And I saw one of this last tournament.
This kid was just all over hit and I mean, it looked, it didn't look fair.
Right.
I mean, he was just murdering this kid from Powerway.
It was getting after his pretty awesome watch.
And you could see just boom, boom, boom is hitting the doubles.
But it reminded me of the iconic picture of Sarge.
Oh, there's a picture of it.
So yeah, there's a picture of Sarge and they put him on.
It was, it was one of those pictures that was so good that they put it, like on the
cover, I think, I don't know if it was that one or for happened later in the match.
He was double-legging him out of bounds.
He was in the table.
Yeah, it was a table may come.
So yeah, you got to watch out for Sarge's double-legged.
It'll put you on your ass quick.
And he won two Sarge won.
Hard to submit.
So like, you just got taken down.
That's two points.
Right.
And now what are you going to do?
Because you can't sweep Sarge.
Right.
Hard.
I mean, of course I can, but it's hard.
Yeah.
You only have a few minutes.
And it's hard to submit.
Oh, but you got back to your feet.
Cool.
You just got taken down again.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's the rub with the real good judo guys are wrestling guys.
That's the rub.
What's the rub?
Oh, how do you solve that problem?
Yeah, it'll become a better wrestling.
But typically that's not it.
Yeah.
Because I run a woodley.
Tyron Woodley fought.
Damien Mayer.
And Damien is an incredible judo to player.
And he couldn't get Tyron down to the map.
And every time he shot, I would hit my son.
And because every time every time Damien shot,
he would's Tyron would just stuff the shot.
And I hit my son and go, that's why you wrestle.
That's why you wrestle boy.
Because you're going to be able to take people down.
Yeah.
And then once you get to the ground, if you have the judo too,
well now you got problems.
Yeah.
Because Tyron didn't want to go to the ground with Damien.
No.
Because that would have been very problematic for him.
But Tyron Woodley is a wrestler.
Oh, yeah.
Was that you who said there's a difference between someone who can wrestle versus a wrestler?
Yes, well that's the same.
Yes.
Tarsal Leisure.
And that's why I say that's not the problem.
That's why I say that's not the solution.
You have a wrestler always taking you down and the solution is to get better wrestling.
The sound solution because you want to get better at something that this guy is probably getting better.
And this is just chances are I'm not saying that to that.
But he's probably a getting better.
B already super good at it.
So it's like the solution is to chase something.
That's 12 years ahead of you.
Yeah.
He's eight years ahead of you in wrestling.
So that's not the solution.
I don't know what this is.
I'm not saying don't wrestle.
Well, I think I'll tell you what this is.
What I think the solution is off the top of my head.
You learn enough wrestling and then you figure out how to incorporate your
jujitsu into the wrestling so that and I say this all the time and Dean will tell you the same thing.
Dean will a Dean will hesitate to shoot on me because he knows there's
significant threats there.
He'll shoot all day on a good wrestler because he doesn't care what happens.
They're not going to catch him most likely.
I mean obviously a jujitsu wrestler can happen.
But and I feel the same way.
I'll shoot all shoot all day on a good wrestler because I don't care.
They're not going to catch me anything and if they do,
be able to do the proper defense and escape it.
But Dean, no, like no, that's a real problem.
Yeah.
Same with Andy, you shoot on Andy.
You know, it's like, okay, that could be problematic.
Yeah.
And not even just pay for it.
You can lose right there.
Yeah.
Andy and I'm going to problem whoever shoots, whoever shoots,
loses.
Yeah.
Because we're both have good anti wrestling.
So yeah, that's it.
That's the that's the solution right there.
You have to figure out the the counter the crypto to the wrestling.
Right.
And whatever way, because that's not just do that.
That's not how it is.
It's but that's the direction that's the solution.
Yeah.
And there's there's problems with that.
Well, there's not problems that one of the easiest ways is to be very.
I guess this is a problem is to be very.
Non aggressive.
Because if all you're trying to do is avoid getting taken down.
You already are are a lot harder to take down than if you like if I go in and start trying to take down a wrestler,
they're going to put me on my ass because I'm trying to take them in.
They know their counters that much better.
They're timing that much better.
They hit the switch.
I'll also I'm down.
Yeah.
You know, but if I'm just trying to avoid you, it's the same thing with someone that's really good.
Strik if you're just if your goal is that if you start striking with a striker that's better than you,
you are more likely to get knocked out.
You're more likely to get hit because you're playing there.
That's the point.
You're playing their game.
Yeah.
And you don't want to play their game.
Now what sucks about that and it even happened the time would be fight.
It was a boring fight because it was shots getting stuffed.
Yeah.
Stand up.
It was a little bit some striking shots getting stuffed.
Striking shots getting stuffed.
That's what the fight was.
It was a very boring fight because his goal is to not get taken down.
And he's a wrestler so he had the capability of doing it.
And now was that.
I'll tell you what it did.
What you do for for wrestling situation is one of those simple.
It's not easy at all, but simple.
You find a way to get to the back from the bottom.
Whoa.
Yeah.
That's great.
I mean, yeah.
You find a way to submit one.
That's great.
Right.
No, no, no.
Like get to the back because dip it in under the wall.
You can't get on there.
I'm sure I'm sure I'm sure I'm there.
He was, he told me this when he was going to chill so on and for Metamores.
And he was like, he's like, yeah, it's interesting fighting wrestlers or whatever.
It's like they can provide like that totally paraphrasing.
They can provide these really hard situations for you in
Jiu Jitsu for many reasons.
They're super hard people to fight.
But if you can figure it out, you got to figure out ways where wrestling provides weaknesses in
a Jiu Jitsu scenario.
Yeah.
And then if you watch the match, sure enough, like he was,
She'll sign it was really good at stuffing stuff and stuff and stuff and stuff and then you could see govels like just slowly and then you got to the back.
Yeah.
And I used to coach Dean with the same idea of, you know, if you was going against a good wrestler, I'd say use your Jiu Jitsu if he's going against a good Jiu Jitsu guy to use your wrestling.
Dean would have a tendency because of his personality to want to go against
them in their strength.
So he trying to out wrestle wrestlers.
He trying out Jiu Jitsu out Jiu Jitsu guys.
He would, that's his natural tendency would be to go at people's strengths.
And I'd have to like say no, do Jiu Jitsu against this guy and then he do it and get what we need to get.
All right.
Back to the book.
When one is obliged to defend entrenchments, one should post all the battions directly behind the parapet because if once the enemy sets foot upon that, those in the rear will think of nothing but to save themselves.
This is because of the consternation in men when something happens that they have not expected.
Again, consternation is like shock.
So he's again emphasizing the fact that when people aren't expecting something, it is a, it's a major down or for it.
It's a major down for it.
It interrupts what's happening.
Yeah.
And that's why you gotta think of contingencies.
That's one of the biggest things, well, one of the best things about thinking about contingencies is just that you're aware of it.
It's going to, just that you thought about it for a half a second.
Big two.
That makes you so much better off getting caught completely, getting caught completely off guard.
I mean, this happens in Jiu Jitsu.
The thing that you get caught with is the thing that you didn't see coming.
That's the thing that catches you.
The thing that surprises you and you're like, how that happened.
Yeah.
It surprises you.
That's what you get caught with.
You know, even like in your house, like that's the one I think of a lot where you know when you're in your house and if you think of like what if there's someone in here.
Oh, yeah.
Right now.
Yeah.
You're not even necessarily of how scary that would be necessarily, but it's like, okay, what if there's someone in here?
At least I'm ready for the fact that someone's in here.
My daughter, my eight-year-old daughter, will try and scare me.
Yeah.
And she'll hide somewhere.
And if I don't expect it, I get started.
You'll get, yeah.
That's you.
And then what I do is I just, you know, you're talking about punishment.
No, what I know, I punish myself.
Oh, he's almost scared.
Yeah.
So she's, she's scared me twice last year.
Like that actually made me a little bit startled.
She tried 98 times.
96 of them were ineffective.
All right.
But I'll say what?
I punish myself.
Yeah, well, I'm going to be a good person.
I'm going to be a good person.
Burpee school.
And then, but I really enjoy scaring people.
Sure.
A lot.
I don't know why.
I find it very entertaining and funny and satisfying.
So I do, when I scare people, like, makes them cry.
Yeah.
Wait, wait.
I still have you scared.
Do you do the loud noise one or do you?
Yeah.
You know, because a lot of times the loud noise isn't the scary thing.
Right.
Sometimes, the scratching at the window is a lot.
Yeah.
Sometimes, you think you're home alone.
You think your dad's calling.
But then, on the other side, there's like scratching at the window.
And there's a noise at the door opening.
And you start calling out for your dad.
But he doesn't answer.
And then there's more scratching at the window.
And then all of a sudden, there's someone with a mask on that comes a little bit.
But the fries.
Yeah.
You can do that, Brad.
That's like, that's a violation.
You can't do that.
No, man.
I do do that.
Yeah.
Back to the book.
Well, let me catch this up to where we're talking about the shock that happens when people
don't expect something.
Back to the book.
This is a general rule in war and decides all battles and all actions.
It comes from the human heart and is what induced me to compose this work.
I do not believe that anyone yet has attempted to find their, find their the reasons for the poor
success of armies.
Thus, when you have stationed your troops behind a pair of put they hope by their fire
to prevent the enemy from passing the ditch and mounting it.
If this happens and spite of the fire, they give themselves up for lost, lose their heads and fly.
They would be much better to post a single rank there, armed with pikes, whose business will be to push
the mainland back as fast as they attempt to mount.
And certainly, they will execute this duty because it is what they expect and what they prepared for.
If with this, you post infantry formed according to my method into centuries at a distance of 30
paces from the entrenchment, these troops will see that they are placed there to charge the enemy
as fast as he enters and attempts to form.
They will not be astonished to see the enemy enter because they expect it and will charge vigorously.
Instead, if instead they had been placed on the parapet, they would have fled.
That is how a trifle changes everything in war and how human weaknesses cannot be managed
except by allowing for them.
That's heavy right there.
Human weaknesses cannot be managed.
You have to allow for them to think about that.
You have to do that all the time as a leader.
You have to try and do it as a leader.
Because if you don't try and manage these weaknesses, you don't allow for them, then they're going to jam
you up as you would say.
So you have to put them in a situation where that ego is going to flourish and not be offended
and when it does get offended, you have to allow for that and how you are going to adapt to it.
It's like expecting perfection, you know, like if you expect perfection.
Well, you're going to be let down a bunch.
Yeah, this is what I'm saying.
So if you allow for imperfection, you can just manage better.
So there's two major points.
You know, number one, if you set people up so that what they expect to happen happens, they're going to have a better
chance of achieving what it is you want them to achieve.
Because if these guys are in the parapet and all of a sudden they get run upon and they're surprised by it
and their mission was to defend the parapet.
Well, now they're getting overrun.
Whereas if you say no once they get parapet gets taken, you attack.
Now they know the parapets and they're not going to be surprised, they expect to happen
and then when they get the opportunity they're going to get in there and get after it.
But man, allowing the manage, managing human weakness, the only way you can do is by allowing for it.
At least some measure of it.
Good.
Good lesson learned that something you can think about as you lead people.
You can think about, hey man, this is a little weakness here.
And if I don't allow for that, I don't give that some room.
And I count on you know, a Flynn from National Unfront newest member of National Unfront.
But he just wrote an article about a guy he was stationed on a ship before he got to the teams.
And he was saying this guy had been late for work.
And but he was trying to bring the guy along had a lot of potential blah, blah, blah.
Anyways, they go to actually do an important training with their weapons on the ship that they were on.
And the guy missed the ship leaving port.
And he says, you know, I should have fired the guy before this.
And now I'm out here.
I don't have this primary guy and you let down me and let down the ship and everything like that.
But he didn't account for human weakness.
He thought that he could bring this guy along, but he just, you know, it's one of those things.
If you don't allow for that human weakness in there, you might be, you might be getting left high and dry.
Which is not good. That's in the, made that thing on the echelon front web page, which is called.
But we'll tune up.
Yeah.
And we're just like writing little.
I guess it could be referred to as a blog.
It's not really a blog because a blog to me seems very, you know, just say we're just going to write whatever blog.
Yeah.
So this is some little, I guess you might want to call them articles.
And there's like let, like let little lessons.
Yeah.
I like to enjoy.
I'm going to put you in the whole time.
And the reason we call the Paltoon Hunt is because that's where you'd sit around and talk shop.
I guess we talk about other things.
But when you get back from a training op, because when you're overseas, you, you, you
still have a Paltoon Hunt, but it's not the Paltoon Hunt.
I guess it is the Paltoon Hunt.
But anyways, yeah, even there.
So when you get back from an operation, you're coming to debriefing you.
You get done with the official debriefing, but then you go into the Paltoon Hunt.
Yeah.
I think you should do this.
And so yeah.
So that's one of those.
He, as a young, a surface warfare officer in the Navy, didn't allow for the human weakness of this young sailor.
And it cost him.
Going back to the book.
The Greeks were very skillful in the art of war and well-discipline.
But their large phalanx was never able to contend with the small bodies of Romans disposed in this formation.
Now he goes on to, there's a guy named Polybius.
And he goes on to quote a huge chunk of text from Polybius.
Polybius was a Greek historian and Polybius actually talked about why the Roman armies could defeat the failings.
And pretty interesting.
So here's what he said.
It is easy to demonstrate by many reasons that while the failings retain its proper form and full power of action,
no forces able to stand against it in front or in support of the violent attacks.
So while the failings is in order, you're not going to be able to defeat it.
So the failings is a military formation.
And he talks a little bit about what it's made up of here.
When the ranks are closed in order to engage each soldier, as he stands with his arms,
occupies a space of three feet.
The spears in their ancient form were 17 qubits long, a qubit is about 18 inches.
But for the sake of rendering them more comodious in actions, they have since been reduced to 14.
Of these four qubits are contained between the part which the soldier grasps in his hands and the lower end of the spear behind which serves as a counterpoise to the part that is extended before him.
And when the length of this last part from the body of the soldier when the spear is pushed forwards with both hands against the enemy is in consequence ten qubits.
From hands it follows that when the failings is closed in its proper form,
every soldier pressed within the necessary distance with respect to the man that is before him.
And on his side, the spears of the fifth rank are extended to the length of two qubits.
And those of the second third and fourth to a still greater length beyond the foremost rank.
It is manifest then that several spears differing each other in the length of two qubits are extended before every man in the foremost rank.
And when it is considered likewise that the failings is formed by sixteen in depth, it will be easy to conceive what must be the weight and violence of the entire body and how great.
The force of its attack. So you got guys.
Sixteen people deep, sixteen people deep and they've got these spears and they adjust the spears depending on where you are in the rank.
So the guy that's five ranks back still has a little bit of his spear sticking out.
And by the way, if one of those guys goes down there's another fourteen people there ready to take his place.
So the failings will lock together the shields protecting the person to your left. And it's like a porcupine of depth locked together.
And obviously the Greeks were hardcore warriors.
And this is what they use and they use to crush people with this failings.
Crush them. Spears and shields. That's all you see.
Now, Polybius talks about what the Romans did and what their setup was.
Back to the book to each of the Roman soldiers as he stands in arms is a lot of the same space of three feet.
But as every soldier in time of action is constantly in motion being forced to shift this shield continuously so that he may cover any part of his body against which a stroke is aimed and to vary the position of his sword.
So as to either push or to make a falling stroke, there must be also a distance of three feet.
The least that can be allowed for performing these motions with advantage between each soldier and the man that stands next to him both on his side and behind him.
So the Romans are in the same similar position.
But they're moving individually inside these little positions. So they're not working together. They're more mobile.
It will be easy, therefore, to conceive that while the failings retain its proper position in strength, no troops as I have before observed can support the attack of it in front.
So if you're going to get to failings, you're going to lose. If you're going to front.
To what caused then is it described that the Roman armies are victorious and those defeated that employed the failings?
So how is it that the Romans were able to be the failings? This is the cause. In war, the times and places of action are various and indefinite.
But there is only one time in place, one fixed and determined manner of action that is suited to the failings.
In the case of a general action, if an enemy be forced to encounter with the failings in the very time and place which the latter requires, it is probable in the highest degree that the failings must obtain victory.
So if you fight the failings where the failings wants you to fight it, meaning on a big open area, you're going to lose.
But if it is possible to avoid an engagement in such circumstances and it is indeed easy to do it, there is nothing to be dreaded from this order of battle.
And here's where it gets to the nitty-gritty. It is well-known and an acknowledged truth that the failings requires a ground that is plain and naked and free from obstacles of every kind, such as trenches, breaks and
and brows of hills or the channels of rivers and that any of these are sufficient to impede it and to dissolve it, the unto dissolve the order in which it was formed.
If the enemy coming down on it should lead their army through the country, plundering the cities and ravaging the lands of what use then will be the failings.
So all you have to do is get them on some rough terrain. You get them on some rough terrain and that failings, it's hard to march already. We know that but now we're marching against weird terrain.
And the guy in front of you trips and falls, well what does he hit, he hits a rock and now that makes this guy fall and all of a sudden we got a big disaster on our hands.
Back to the book, when the Romans attacked the failings and the front they never employ all their forces so as to make their line equal to that of the enemy but lead on only a part of their troops and the rest they keep in reserve.
Now whether the troops the failings break the line that is opposed to them or whether they are broken themselves, the formation peculiar to the failings is alike dissolved.
So even if they win that initial onslaught even if the failings wins that the failings is out of order.
If they pursue the fugitive or if on the other hand they retreat and are pursued in either case they are separated from the rest of their own body.
And thus there is left some space which the reserve of the Roman army takes care to seize and then charges the remaining part of the failings. But the charge is not made against the front but in the flank or the rear.
Since it is easy then to avoid the conditions that are favorable to the failings and since those on the contrary that are disinvenged disinventages to it can never be avoided it is certain that this difference alone must carry with it a decisive weight in time of action.
So let them get a little bit disrupted once they are disrupted flank them.
The troops of the failings lose all their strength when they engage in separate companies or man on man. The Roman order on the contrary is never attended even on such occasions with any disadvantage.
Among the Romans every single soldier when he is once armed and ready for service is a like fitted and engaged.
Fitted to engage in any time or place or in any appearance of the enemy and preserves that always the same power and the same capacity and action whether in separate companies or man to man.
So big destructive element in front of you don't go head on head with it we've learned this over and over again you might want to distract it sure. But then you hit him from the flank and don't face people on their best category right don't wrestle against the rest of their don't do to the two against the two guys don't box against the boxer don't go at them and don't do it where they want to do it.
That's real important disrupting the failings.
Now we talk about attacking entrenchments which again these are defensive positions when an entrenchment is to be attacked and attempt should be made to extend the lines as much as possible make sense right.
I just don't want to I want to let make the person think that we're going to attack him on the whole the whole line that he's got this will make the enemy fearful everywhere so that he will not withdraw troops from any point to reinforce that which you intend to
attack even after he discovers it. This makes many of his troops use this and this was D day so what we did on D day.
You know they did those massive deception operations the breads the Americans and built those fake tanks and fake planes and put them all they were inflatable you see that stuff right.
The Americans and the breads when we were trying to to confuse Hitler about where we were going to attack D day they made these they made like fake air planes and fake tanks and they put them in different locations that the indicated that we'd probably be attacking this spot instead of that spot and it all works.
And so he had to defend the whole line and actually defended those areas where they thought the attack was coming more than they defended the area or D day was a little deception operation.
Back to the book too much attention cannot be paid despise and guides they're like eyes and are equally necessary to a general he is too much money cannot be spent to get good ones.
These men should be chosen in the country where the war is being fought they should be intelligent cunning and discreet.
The commanding general I have formed a picture of a commanding general which is not chimera.
I have seen such men the first qualities the first of all qualities is courage without this the others are of little value since they cannot be used.
The second is intelligence which must be strong and fertile in expedience the third is health.
He should possess a talent for sudden and appropriate improvisation that's a good that's you don't expect that.
A talent for sudden and appropriate improvisation if I didn't make this clear enough he's kind of going through the characteristics that he believes a good commanding general should have.
He should be able to penetrate the minds of other men while remaining impenetrable himself.
He should be endowed with the capacity of being prepared for everything with the activity accompanied by judgment.
With the skill to make proper decision on all occasions and with exactness of discernment.
Good lists. He should have a good disposition free from from Caprice and be a stranger to hatred and Caprice is like you're just going to change your mind all the time.
He should punish without mercy, especially those who are dearest to him but never from anger.
Because remember earlier he was talking about being kind of chill with it with the last things.
But he says you should punish without mercy especially those who are dearest to you.
And I think that goes to what he was saying about troops.
You're going to draft people. You're going to make sure you draft the rich people too.
And I think he's saying you've got to treat people fairly, right? Even when you're even when it's on your own.
He should always be grieved when he is forced to execute the military rules and should have the example of manelius.
Constantly before his eyes and manly is actually actually manly is he was like a Roman hero during the Gallic siege.
And beyond that he was sort of like a, I want to call him a human rights advocate, but maybe that's too strong or but anyways he ended up getting a crucifix, not crucified.
From him.
From a great height and killed as execution.
But he sort of seen as a guy that stood up. He almost was in like an alamo scenario like in Texas when they, when they stood and were killed.
He was in one of those situations, but he wasn't killed during that Gallic siege room.
Anyways, back to the book. He should discard the idea that is he who punishes and should persuade himself and others that he only administer the military laws.
With these qualities, he will be loved. He will be feared and without doubt obeyed.
The functions of a general are infinite. He must know how to subsist his army and how to husband it, how to place it so that it will not be forced upon to fight except when he chooses.
How to form his troops in an infinity of different infinity of different dispositions.
How to profit from that favorable moment which occurs in all battles and which decides their success.
All these things are of immense importance and are as varied as the situations and dispositions which produce them.
In order to see all these things, the general should be occupied with nothing else the day of the battle, the inspection of the terrain and the disposition of his troops should be prompt like the flight of an eagle.
This done, his orders should be short and simple. As for instance, the first line of attack, the first line will attack and the second will be in support. Boom, that's it.
Keep it simple. The general's under his command must be incompetent indeed if they do not know how to execute this order and to perform the proper maneuvers with their respective divisions.
Thus the commander and chief will not be forced to occupy himself with it nor be embarrassed with the details.
For if he temps to be a battle sergeant and be everywhere himself, he will resemble the fly in the fable that thought he was driving the coach.
Thus on the day of the battle, I should want the general to do nothing.
His observations will be better for it. His judgment will be more sane and he will be in a better state to profit from the situations in which the enemy finds himself during the engagement.
And when he sees an occasion, he should unleash his energies hastened to the critical point at top speed, seize the first troops available advanced and rapidly and lead them in person.
These are the strokes that decide battles or end game victories. The important thing is to see the opportunity and know how to use it.
So what he's saying there's got to be detached. He's saying you got to be detached and then you got to stay back and you got to look around now.
He also says once you see the critical moment, you got to get up in there and make it happen.
But he's saying you definitely can't get laid down in the weeds. You can't be the sergeant that's trying to do everything.
Back to the book, many commanding generals only spend their time on the day of the battle and making their troops march in a straight line and seeing that they keep their proper distances in answering questions which their aids to camp come to ask,
and they're not going to be able to do anything. They're not going to be able to do anything.
So this is a great, this is just, you're in a leadership position. You try and do everything yourself. You're not going to do anything at all.
Then it's the same, that's the same thing as prioritize next to you. If you try and solve all the problems that are happening at the same time, you're not going to solve any of those problems.
They appear to me like men with their heads turned, who no longer see anything and who are only able to do what they have done all their lives, which is to conduct troops methodically under their orders under the orders of a commander.
How does this happen? It is because very few men occupy themselves with the higher problems of war. They pass their lives drilling troops and believe that this is the only branch of the military act.
When they arrive at the command of armies, they are totally ignorant and in default of knowing what should be done, they do what they know.
That is so classic. It's so classic. When people don't know, they don't understand something. They do what they know how to do. They they always default into what they know how to do.
Their minds are closed. One of the branches of the art of war that is to say drill and the method of fighting is methodical. The other is intellectual.
For the conduct of the latter, it is essential that ordinary men should not be chosen.
Unless a man is born with a talent for war, you will never be other than a mediocre general. There's the same with all talents in painting or music or in poetry that talent must be inherent for excellence.
All sublime arts are alike in this respect. That is why we see so few outstanding men in science centuries past without producing one. Application rectifies ideas, but does not furnish a soul for that is the work of nature.
I just answered a question on Twitter. I basically said, well, you can't do whatever you want just because you believe in it. You have hard work and discipline.
That doesn't mean you can do whatever you want. Like as a career or something.
I know there's any Olympic sport that I would be that I have the genetic makeup to be able to compete at the Olympic level. I'm of course we could go back and maybe that's possible from a child.
I don't feel like it, but even right now, if you take that to the extreme, that means hey, you know what if I have the focus and if I have the discipline, I can become an Olympic wrestler now.
The Olympic high jumper, right? How's that vert looking? So you see what I'm saying? Now my opinion is that is not true. And some people are not going to achieve certain things that they may want to achieve no matter how hard they want to do it.
Most people like, yeah, that's realistic. Some people like, no, you can believe if you believe it, you can achieve it. If I could believe it, because I believed it, I'd be like, I'd be just all winning everything.
It's not that easy. You got to believe it. You got to work hard at it. You got to have some natural capabilities. So it is. I'm sorry to let everyone down.
Sarahars the led fighters back to the top of the world. It's nice and looks like you're doing nice mistakes.
around, oh yeah, I believe I can do this.
So I'm going to achieve, no, no, no.
You want to achieve, you got to do something.
And the same token that is also correct is that if you don't believe in what you're doing,
then yeah, there's no way you're going to achieve it.
You won't be able to gut through it when it gets problematic, which it's certainly going to.
So, sacs agrees with me that, hey, the work of nature has to be in play.
Otherwise, it's not happening.
You might get to some level, but yeah, reality is.
That's hard. I think that's hard when to admit.
You don't seem like you want to admit this.
I think you're over there. Like, you, if you wanted to go to distance, put it this way.
It seems really like that's not true. It seems like, you know, you maybe just didn't work hard enough.
Even though you thought that you worked as hard as you possibly had, maybe the fact it,
this is what it seems like. But at the end of the day, I do agree with that.
I mean, it's way clear with physical stuff because physical limitations are way more obvious.
And there's, I don't know.
Well, let's face it. Let's say playing guitar because I play guitar.
Yeah. And I also now kind of play ukulele. Yeah.
But let's say playing guitar.
Even if you practice and you can mechanically play guitar, that doesn't give you the
natural spark of creativity that is demanded. If it did, then every person that worked
hard and play guitar would become a rock and roll star with great creative songs. But it just
doesn't happen. Yeah. There's hundreds of thousands, just in America, there's hundreds of thousands
of people that play guitar at an incredibly capable proficiency. Right? They can play every song
that you hear on the radio. But you know what they do for a living? Cover songs.
Well, they play cover songs. They're also working as a banker somewhere because they didn't have
whatever creative thing that would give them to be able to create something that was new and that
people wanted to want to listen to. That needs to come from somewhere else. Yeah.
In practice isn't going to get you there. Some people learn it in the schools. Some people learn
it on the streets. But I think you kind of got to be born with it. Man, that's a little
tumacious deep for everyone. Yeah. And again, can you teach creativity? And even then, it's like,
yeah, but no. Yeah. Really. Exactly. I mean, compare the guys. And then where do you get it? Really,
you know, it's a, yeah. It's weird. It's just, I think that's really the reason that it is true
is because you can't put your finger on it. You can't be like, yeah, just work as hard as you
possibly can. Sure. That's going to be well, improve. Another classic example is look at the people,
you know, if I go to an academic high level academic environment where everyone is, you know,
incredibly intelligent, but not all of them are able to do something that not all of them are able
to succeed at the level that their heritage would point towards. So just because you got a 1600
on your SATs and you did this and you went to this great college, there's a lot of people that did
all those things and they're, they're not what they themselves would consider successful, right?
And so the reality is there's something not there. And like you said, I don't know that you can
actually put your finger on it. Yeah. Because there's some other kid that didn't do any of that
and made stuff happen. Yeah. And was extremely successful. There's thousands and thousands of
examples like that, too. Yeah. So it's kind of like when you compare it like the proverbial
person with all the potential versus someone with not that much potential. And maybe the guy with
it with lead less potential, there'll be exceptions where that guy made it. And then they'll be,
obviously like all these other scenarios where the guy with the potential doesn't. Doesn't make sure.
Yeah. So it's like, all right, you know, this guy's born with it. What would we kind of
let's take it to a new level, not just making it, but actually being a, like the highest level.
Yeah. For that person, you got to have the talent and you got to have the work. Yeah.
Gotta do both. Hence to be this case. Check. And he says the same thing here. I've seen very good
kernels become very bad generals. I have known others who were great takers of villages, excellent
from maneuvers within an army, but who outside of that were not even able to lead a thousand men in
war, who lost their heads completely and were unable to make a decision. Any decision. So he sees the
same thing. And you, you know, I see that with business leaders. The business leader that you need to be
at the beginning of your business is not the same business leader that you need to be once your
business is more successful. You got to have this, some guys are good at street fighting. Right?
They're good at street fighting. They're not good at planning a war, planning a campaign. And so
you might win as a company. If you're a leader at the street fighting level and you do good,
you scrap it out. Then as you grow, if you don't transition mentally and become a different kind of
leader, not a different person, but a different kind of leader, you may not be able to win at the
higher levels. So that needs to get paid attention to back to the book. One should once and for all
a established standard combat procedures, which the troops as well as the general who leads them.
No, I'm not the first person to talk about standard operating procedures.
Uh-oh. These are general rules such as preserving proper distances on the march,
when charging to charge vigorously to fill up intervals in the first line from the second.
No written instructions are required for this. It is the ABC of the troops and nothing is simpler.
Standard operating procedures. He also says that the general
should preserve an unfettered mind and not occupy himself with trifles.
I am convinced that a skillful general could make war all his life without being forced into one.
That's the old. The real martial artist doesn't have to fight. The art of fighting without
fighting is... War can be made without leaving anything to chance. And this is the highest point
of perfection and skill as a general. So he now are there things that are left to chance in war?
Yeah. There's a lot of things that are left to chance in war, but can you mitigate a lot of those?
Yeah. Absolutely. Back to the book. The words of the proverb,
a bridge of gold should be made for the enemy is followed religiously.
Meaning I'm going to give. If the enemy wants to run, I'm going to build him a bridge,
gold to run on. You want to run away? That's great. War is over.
This is false. On the contrary, the pursuit should be pushed to the limit and the retreat
which had appeared such a satisfactory solution will be turned into a route. A detachment of
10,000 men can destroy an army of 100,000 in flight. Nothing inspires so much terror or occasions,
so much damage for everything is lost. So he's saying, no, you don't let the enemy get away.
When they're running, that's when you destroy them completely.
This is not to say that it is necessary to give yourself up totally to the pursuit and fall
the enemy with all your forces. But if the officer you have ordered in pursuit,
prides himself upon the regularity of his formation and the precautions of his march,
there is no use in having sent him. He must attack, push and pursue without cease.
All maneuvers are good then. It is only precautions that are worthless.
Yeah, and that right there kind of wraps up the highlights of this book,
attack, push, pursue without ceaseing. And I believe that is also known as getting after it.
And what's interesting is I think it's clear that as we continue to see
these leaders throughout history that were able to lead through the harshest of conditions,
there's obviously a lot of common principles that they share. And so the question is,
okay, why do we keep reading them then? Why do I keep trying to confirm the same things?
Why am I always looking actually for counterpoints as well? That offers some kind of
different solution like the one about Sunsuit today. You don't need to be early on the battlefield,
but if it's cold out there and it's going to wear down your troops, don't be early.
But from my perspective, the more different angles that you see these things, the more different
ways that you learn the same lesson, the more clearly you understand. If you learn an armlock from
three different people, they're all going to give you something different. And it's the same thing.
We get something slightly different from all these strategic thinkers. And we get better understanding
of it. And there are differences in what people say. And I think it's good to look at the way
those differences manifest themselves on the battlefield and throughout history because maybe there's
one solution. That's a little bit better than the one that I know right now. So for me,
I'm going to continually try to reinforce, try and fortify, try and stay humble as
Sacks talked about, continue to learn and relearn and discard what doesn't work and always
try and get better. And I think that's all I've got for tonight.
Yeah, I guess it better be. I thought this was going to be a quick episode.
Well, I'm good. No, all right. I guess we should move quickly now. What do you think?
You agree? No, it doesn't sound like it. I'll see you at up. So getting better.
Yeah, speaking and getting better. Jocquad some supplements. They're jocquad supplements.
So you know, you're going to get better. And there's, okay, so super crill is the crill oil supplement.
Good one. Super. And join warfare. And discipline case. We'll say those three supplements.
If anyone's wondering if you're watching on YouTube and you're seeing me drink two things.
I'm drinking two things. One of them is in a smart water bottle. And it is I'm drinking discipline.
The other is in a Poland spring bottle that I brought back from Maine to a Miami of Maine.
And I'm drinking that one. Jocquad. So those bottles are in your tube.
Yeah, well, they're in a northeast. We'll say. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, but you won't get, you won't find
Poland spring out here. No, no, that's from Maine. You brought it back. Just don't.
Nonetheless, so super crill, crill oil. That is in fish oil. Factually.
Factually. And then this jocco super crill, which is better than regular crill oil. Factually.
No, there's, there's, there's people out there not taking crill oil. And I'm not saying they should
take real oil. They should take crill oil. I just just not what I'm saying right now. I am saying if I will
argue, I'll actually pretty much guarantee pretty much. I know that defeats the purpose of
a guarantee. But I'll pretty much guarantee that if someone's not taking crill oil, whether you
jocquad crill oil or not, and they take crill oil, they'll be like dang. I should have started
taking this crill oil before. Is it like learning to do when you start to just you got man, I should have
missed. I wish I started this when I was 13. It's just like that on a smaller level. I know,
unadjoint maintenance level. Yeah. And joint warfare is what I'm feeling is for me, that's kind of,
it's new, right? And I'm like man, I wish I could not this far along. Wait, the joint warfare? Yeah.
Yeah. Because you can feel it's like you're getting maintenance. Well, you should have
came up with it earlier. No, no, no. Next time, that's what you're going to do. Come out with it earlier.
That's what I think you should do. Then the less they're for you joined. It's good. And we're all working out.
Hey, we're making something. We're making a new product. We'll share. And it is,
it's going to be good. You're going to like it. It's a it's a protein drink. And it's going to be
all. I've had, we've done two sampling given the ingredients. So we give the ingredients to the
supplement factory. They mix them. And we've gone through two, we've gone through two iterations.
Mm-hmm. Right. The first iteration, I was like, oh my god, this tastes good.
Wait, wait, wait, wait. Well, talking pure taste. Yeah. You're just, the first one, I was like,
oh, this is this taste good. Really good. Like the kind where you think this is a whole new thing.
You know what I mean? Wait, I'll hold a new thing like this is like, I can't put it in this
thing. Yeah, because protein, taste, protein powders. Yeah, it has a graph. Yeah. And that was one of the
things. We researched to figure out how we could make it taste legit. Good. Where you, you're, hold
your nose. And forcing down the band. Yeah. The first sample that we got, which I was in Maine when
we tasted it, we stood there as me, Brian and Pete. And we were standing that. And we, we all mixed it
up together and imported it into three separate cups. Sure. And everyone when we drank it,
everyone's like quiet for a second. It was like, oh my god. What kind of is it? It was, well, this one was
mint chocolate. Yeah. And it's just really good. And obviously the protein and it's awesome.
And we've got some other things in it that are going to make it more complete. But yeah. And then I just
got the sec. But you know, there's a couple of gistements that I wanted to make to the taste, just the
pure taste. Yeah. So we just made those adjustments. I got the second iteration in. It tastes even
better than the first one. But I still, I've sent them back for one more. I hopefully it only
be one more iteration before we can start producing it. It's going to not come out for a while.
It takes a long time to get everything rolling. But yeah. Anyways, we have that in the future.
That's interesting. Yeah. Because I don't, I'm not into protein. I know you are. I was back. You
really. There is this one. I'm telling you, you will be. I won't be for protein. It'll be for like a
dessert. It'll be like someone saying they're not into this. It's going to be like someone saying,
I'm not into ice cream. That's how it tastes. It is. All right. Well, good. I guess we'll see. I guess that's
kind of the test right in a way. In a way. In a way. In a way. It's a test. Well, good. Now the last
cruel oil joint warfare and discipline. Those are already out. Yeah. Doing work. Discipline taste good, too.
Yeah. That's another thing. You don't have to drink something that tastes like crap, just because
it's awesome for you. You can drink something that tastes good. And I'll tell you one thing I'm
noticed and I don't know if this is, I don't know what this means. But when I drink discipline,
because I work out in the morning as I say all the time, I don't do a pre-workout thing. It's not
my thing. Right? I work out in the morning on an empty stomach. Yeah. And there's this old rock
climber. And I can't think of his name right now. One of the famous old rock climbers. And he would
I read an article one time about him where he was he would climb while starving himself and wearing
a weight belt. It was harder. I'll say yes. I'm going to do that. I've done that all the time.
Done the numbers. It's anyways. If you have some discipline, the drink. Then you will feel
like, so when I get done working out, maybe like, let's say, you know, I always say, I usually have
some nuts around. It's going to mix nuts just to kind of get in my gut, little food. I've been
having some, you know, a couple handfuls of mix nuts and then having some discipline and I feel
so like super good that then I'm just firing through the day. And so basically what I'm getting
out of this is I've been eating even cleaner because I'm eating like, I'm eating basically right
now I think I'm eating once a day. I'm eating discipline. I'm at drink it's discipline and then I'm
going once a day with a good solid meal and then yeah, it's man's good. It's good stuff and that's
good. That works. It's working good for me because I'll tell you why when I eat less, I feel better.
Yeah, that's when I eat less, I feel better. And so this is making me eat less. Now, I'm not saying
now believe me when I eat, dude, I get it on. That's how I roll. When I eat, I get it on. And
but this is just yeah, it's nice to be able to get to feel energized and sharp mentally without
getting crazy. I think that, because you know, that idea that what you eat less and you feel better.
Yeah. And I found that to be the case and this is what I really like. I found that to be the case
only sometimes. I was thinking why is it like that sometimes? If I'm doing something like, you know,
when we go to the mustard or something like that, I'll correct. Yeah, we're doing something all day.
You don't eat. And I wasn't eating. Yeah. It's kind of like, yes. But if you eat, it's kind of like,
your body goes into this like kind of rest most, you know. For sure. But if you eat a little bit or like,
just, you know, just like, I'm going to stand now all this time. E. O. K. We cruising now. Yeah.
Yeah, when you rest when you bounce, you're basically telling yourself, you're going into
a level seven echo cruise. Yeah, I'm technically recover mode. It's really kind of what it does.
And that's really what it felt like. So yeah, I found that that yeah, if you, so you probably
have a bunch of stuff to do. Oh, all the time. Yeah. Yeah. But when I'm for sure, when you're like,
when I'm doing a fast, I want to be doing something. Yeah. Because you sit around and think about food.
Yeah. Brother, that's horrible. You say like, like, when Charlie Plum was talking about being
in the honeyway, helping them, he's just thinking of, they were just literally sitting around thinking
about food all the time. Yeah. Because it wasn't even anything to do. Yeah. And food is actually a
little bit of a cure or relief from boredom. Yeah. You know how you get to the first year.
If you're back, if they were your kid, you're just bored. You look in the streets for, I don't know.
You're not hungry. You're bored. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
It's funny because right now I got my, you know, my it's wrestling season. So the, the weight cuts are
on. And they're not neither one of my kids that are resting are, are cutting a bunch of weight. But
it means that you don't, it means that there's times when you don't eat for a day, right?
Same thing. So you get to see the effects of that. And my daughter's like, I feel, she's like,
yeah, I feel fine. She's just to get angry or nothing. Yeah. She doesn't get angry. I warned my wife.
I said, hey, you need to watch an out because of people because you mean you don't are cutting
weight with fighters. They're cutting much more severe weight. And they start getting in bad moods.
Oh, fighters. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They start getting in bad moods because they can't eat. They get
angry. Yeah. But neither one of my kids are cutting that much weight. They're just kind of maintaining
through the season. Did what I don't know if we talked about angry like that's a for real thing
because this is what it is. When you, when you, I mean by that physiologically, so that your frontal
cortex or prefrontal frontal, I don't know, whatever the front of your brain, the part that's
under your side to your face. That makes decisions and empathy in like all these things get compromised
one year. Wait, when you're what? Hungry. I'll come on, man. Listen to me.
Well, I'll tell you why because it because I believe that if you if you if you made all those things
less effective, then we wouldn't be here as a species because every time we got hungry in the past,
we would have gotten all confused and frustrated and we wouldn't have been able to hunt. But the
bottom line is the opposite. I think is true. Back in the dirty. If you needed to hunt something
down, you had to be sharp. So when you didn't need it, made you sharper and more tuned. That's how
I feel. Okay. That's not what you know what I read and heard. But hey, I'm not saying weird that you
can go on the internet and find an art to the scientific articles that say the exact opposite.
Just follow me. So hangry from what I read. Science director. Correct. Beca,
well, the dating is word hangry. But empathy and this is with like if you get hungry or sleep deprived
uh whatever. Yeah, just the part of your brain kind of. It doesn't shut down completely. It just
because yesterday yesterday, yesterday I went to sleep. I went to bed. Sure. At 830 at night.
Hey. That's the thing. Yeah. I woke a bit like 350 and I was kind of, I was like, yeah,
that felt good. Yeah. I was, but I didn't sleep almost at all the night before. So I was
recovering. I needed to put some more back in the back and everyone says you can't do that. Yeah.
I mean, you can't catch up on sleep. I just did. Yeah. I don't know. I just did. I feel like you
were in. Yeah. I caught up on sleep. I never let you finish your scientific explanation. So what was
the deal? It just was less hard to answer. So you'll treat people worse. Oh, technically.
So yeah, hangry. That's apparently from what I read is it's a little thing. Maybe not. So maybe
I'm sure. I'm sure. Gresson. Yeah. Maybe you're up your Gresson. Maybe it does make you sharpen
when you're sharper. You're not taking any crop from anybody. So you're more aggressive towards them.
Cause you want to go on hunt and kill something. Maybe I do agree with your weird science.
You say tomato. I say tomato. I say tomato. I don't, you know, be aggressive. But nonetheless, um,
yeah, it's a real thing. Apparently. Okay. No. I don't know. Not to say that everyone's going to
behave in a certain way. I'm just saying that's what I've been internally. Maybe maybe maybe not nonetheless
get disciplined. It'll cognitively enhance. So if you're prefrontal or frontal corta, I forget
we're just both of them. Both of them. A frontal thing in your brain is shutting down. Boom. Take that discipline.
The cognitive enhances is going to help it out. A lot. Don't be angry. Even if you're hungry.
Guess where you can get these things at originmain.com. Slotters cool stuff on there.
Originmain also has geese. Rashcards, various clothing items. All made in America. That's a good spot.
Just check it out. Look on there. Slotters cool stuff on there. If you want something, get something.
Also, if you're into workout equipment to populate your home gym, it's good. I mean,
home gym, by the way. One of my friends is coming into town. And he's like, yeah, let's catch a
workout. I'm like, we don't have to go to a gym and catch a workout at home to do something else.
Nonetheless, it made me think of how good it is to have a home gym. Nonetheless, if you have your home
gym going to populate it even a little bit, get your workout stuff from on it. That's what I think.
It's the cool one. You can do various interesting workout routines with the equipment unlike
Jockel. Jockel's workouts are super boring. Even though you do have kettlebells which I respect.
Yeah. Anything you want to add on that? No, man, that's it. Are you sure if that's the workout
thing? We're about to get it. No, no, no, no, that kettlebell you're good, but you're good. You're solid.
And I'm sure you're getting very strong. And I'm sure, you know, in case everyone doesn't know,
they're running his mouth. And I use that term like with, I'm not just throwing it out there.
I really was running my mouth and you're really pissed on that you have a what, how much is your
heaviest kettlebell? 90 90 pounds. Big foot and my heaviest kettlebell was 88 pounds. This is no
longer a problem. Now my heaviest kettlebells plural because I have two is 48 kilograms or
106 pounds commonly referred to as the beast. So, nonetheless, mine are from on it. They're the cool ones.
And you can get other cool exercise stuff there. So go on it.com slash jockel. Check out the stuff
there. If you want something, get something. Also, when you get your copy of reveries on the art of war,
by Maurice Disax. It's a good one. I like those manual kind ones. You know, one that goes, yep,
I know, if you think about it, there's really three types of podcasts that are happening. One is
Q&A. Two is manual strategies about war. Three is human nature inside war. So those are kind of,
when I'm reading a book, I'm like, oh, yeah, I just kind of like one of those. Yeah. Yeah.
So this would be with Napoleon's Maximus. Yeah. Something like that. The art of war by Sunsu. So we
don't quite a number of books like that. Yeah. And, you know, I get a little something different
from each of them because if you think about it, he says that you have to pay attention to the human
heart. Well, where are you going to learn about the human heart? He didn't say much about it. As much
as he said, you need to know about it. He didn't say much about it. Where are you going to find it?
You're going to find it by reading people that were actually in war and start to understand where
their heart was in this old gig. Yeah. Yeah. It's interesting too because they're laid out in the
specific context. You know, like, like Sunsu, he's talking about, you know, a certain time period,
a certain place in the city of Vietnam, one and then a world where and they're still they're talking
about, okay, these principles at this time. Yes. This is why they were well, it was interesting
to do eye-drying and how more because it was his battle, two podcasts on his battle, and then
his book that he wrote about leadership. So you kind of got to see maybe I don't know if there's anything.
Now, we've seen some of that, for instance, you got Napoleon's Maximus, right? And then we
got to hear from a Napoleonic foot soldier. So you get to kind of see, see the war, what the war was
like, what the human heart was was going on with the human heart and then what was going on with
the minds of the stratitation. Yeah. I don't know if that's a word. Let's try it. Sure. I think so.
Just because you know what's cool is the English language. You can words. They come about.
They just get formed. Yeah. That's a catch. There's a time where there was no word.
And then that word is there. Yeah. Well, and if you learn the OED, which is the Oxford English
dictionary, it tells you where the word came from and then it has like first useages. So there's
some words. This word was first in print in 1622 in this work of literature. Yeah. You know,
that's what's crazy. Two words will go in these cycles where they'll be used like like eight.
Right. If you say eight. That's again. That's the improper thing. It's not really a word
level. But aint was actually used by like high upper class people, broken the day, like long time ago.
And like aint and shant in all these like words. Like I shut, you know, all this and eight was one of them.
There's one of them. And I forget the deal, but someone in the lower class started using it.
And they're like, oh, they're using it now or something like that. So it went out. And it's like,
oh, that's not a word. But it is a word. The language in general, but definitely the English language
I studied English in college. And but the classes that I took, some of the classes that I took
were would focus on that, which was pretty interesting to me. Very interesting to me. And I think
the reason it's interesting to me is because language is how we communicate communication is how we
lead. Yeah. So if you don't know what words you're using or you can't find the right word to articulate
what it is you're trying to say. You know, a harder time getting your message across when you have a
harder time getting your message across, it's harder for you to lead it. Yeah. So and then if you kind of
look at the big picture of that, it's kind of like you have then then you kind of in a way should
know slang and stuff like that. Sure. For sure. For sure. If you're over your talking quote,
unquote, all proper to people who aren't used to hear from you properly, they're like,
what's this they're talking about or whatever? That is definitely true. And it's not just about
language. There. It's about culture as well. Yeah. And you know, one of the cool things that
when I grew up and I was kind of, you know, getting into the heart and I was in the hard
course in, right? It exposed me to people and things that I wouldn't have seen if I would have
stayed in my small New England town. So when I got to the world, meaning got out of that small
town and now I was in the military, I was able to understand better than I would have if I didn't.
Yeah. And I think that's important. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Help. For sure. Yeah. Okay. How's this word? Irrigardless.
Right. Irrigardless. It's not even a word. Right. That's what they said. So I had this bet.
This is a long time. This is like over 10 years ago. I just bet. This is co-worker of mine. And
for whatever. I think my dad taught me to like, you're a girl. This is not a word. You know,
and he'd always like correct you. So you know how I'm in Prince in your mind. Like,
someone uses the word irregardless. They should be corrected. That was kind of imprinted in my
subconscious. So it happened at where? Yeah. Good Charles Grammar not to come out for a little bit.
I was for a little bit. It was more just out of fun. But nonetheless, he, no, she was a girl.
I said, Irrigardless is not a word. It's like, yeah, it is. I was like, no, Irrigardless is like a misuse
misuse of a word. Irrigardless is a misuse of a word. It's not a word. He's like, well, if it's a
misuse of a word, it's the word for the misuse of this specific word. And I'm like, it's not a word
that held that just means. Yeah, but she's saying she's saying basically, if you can say it and you
can spell it and it's like, if it's a little name for something, it's not the name of any of it. It's
a name for a misuse of a word is what that was her argument. That was the, did you win money? No, I did
not win the money. No, so we're, we, it never got resolved between me and her. In fact, we hated it. I
think we kind of hated each other. Yeah, because it got heated. We're actually that
made each other. It was cool. But nonetheless, that was her stance. My stance is, you can't just
invent a word. You can't just use a word wrong, invent another word because you're wrong. And then
be like, oh, no, it's a word. Now I'm right. All of a sudden, you can't do this. Not how
it works. And then so I look it up in the dictionary. Yeah, I was haunting me. So when I went on
or looked it up in the dictionary, sure enough, the thing was there. And it said the misuse
of the, or the common misuse of the regardless, some, but I'm still confused. Like, is that a word?
And here's the thing. I talked to Jade about it. Yeah, I bothered me a lot. So I talked to Jade about
it and he was like, brother, that's kind of how the language is. He's right. Getting enough people
misusing regardless. And then in the area, let's boom, all of a sudden, he gets shuffle right
into the rotation as a legitimate word. It's what? Is that a good thing or is that a bad thing?
It's a beautiful thing. It's a beautiful thing. It's a, it's a language is always evolving. And
that's what allows the language just like, just like, jiu-jitsu, just like mixed martial arts. You
want it to evolve. You want it to, new words to come out that can articulate something a little bit
better. Like, for instance, irregardless articulates that you love being risk language very well.
Well, yeah, but, but yeah, at some point, a hundred years in the future, irregardless
will become a word that has a little bit of a different meaning than regardless. Like, it's maybe
it's more regardless. Like irregardless of what you're saying. And it will say first used in,
you know, somebody's going to write an article in online or, and it's going to, the guy's going to
misuse it, but everyone's going to understand it. He's going to say first used here. Yeah.
There's all kinds of arguments you can have about language, but you have to remember that
it's evolving all the time. Our language is evolving all the time and it should. In France,
they try not to let their language evolve. Yeah. They'll try and keep that language.
Interesting. Or the same, the ultimate result is something like that would be, uh,
but the word, I think it's the same result if you try and not, not evolve your martial arts.
Yeah. Eventually, if you don't evolve your martial arts, you're going to lose.
Yeah. Yeah. That's the same thing with language. Yeah, you become less effective,
communication wise. Yeah. In language, as far as that goes, the word literally. Now, okay,
literally. We know it, here's the hard part about accepting this because literally means something
very specific. There's no ambiguousness. If you started to be ambiguous, you wouldn't say literally.
Yeah. Say figuratively or you just won't say anything. That's what you, that's the defining
characteristic of the word literally. But here's the thing. Now, literally doesn't mean literally.
Literally means just almost a lot. Yeah. Just really strong. Not even almost
lyrics. Just really strong. So if I was like, man, this guy's joke was so funny. I was literally
dying. All right. I wasn't almost dying. It's not what it means. It just means it was super duper duper
funny. You know? That's the one changing. Yeah, man. But that's a hard one to accept. Like and all.
I think there's another word, but in America and California, this is a recent one. So
maybe the 80s, everyone's in order to say said, said like, more all, echo was like, you got to stop
doing this and I was all the way. I'm going to do that. That's just the way language evolves. Yeah.
Dang. That's cool. I mean, I dig it. So nonetheless, if you want to buy this book,
regardless, regardless of the language, you didn't do that. What I did was I made it easy.
You go to jocopakas.com on the top menu, whatever, you put a page there. Has all the books
buy up a so this one is on there along with everything else. Just click through there. It's a good
way to support and you get, you take the Amazon, you get your book and eight hours, however long it takes
to ship to your house. Good way to support. Also, if you're doing other shopping, if you're going to buy
that lawnmower and leaf blower that you've been meaning to buy and the rake as well.
Follow. Just saying. You're in the wrong time zone every wrong time of year for that. Oh yeah.
Wait, the rake. No, it's about to be springs. So what? You got another six months before you
get the rake out in the lawnbower. Yeah. I just, that's one of the last things I bought with a leaf
blower. Really. Yeah. Okay. Long story. Nonetheless, duct tape. That's your round tape. So if you
can eat it, duct tape, just carry on shopping, whatever you want to do. That's what you do. Good
way to support. Also, subscribe to the podcast. I do in the stitch or google play. Spotify.
Why? Or wherever else they have podcasts and wherever else you want to listen to the podcast. They have
like new podcasts apps out too. Yeah. They all have them though. Yeah. And I did it. So hey,
whatever you're using to listen, subscribe. It seems obvious, I guess, on the listening part.
But YouTube not so much. We have a YouTube channel. Subscribe to that too. That's a good way to support.
If you want, because some people not into YouTube. Who's not into YouTube? I don't know.
YouTube has good information on it. You can also waste a bunch of time on it. Yeah. Yeah. It's like just,
yeah, it's like the internet in general. You know, a lot of things. You're whole,
like pursuit can be on the internet and it can be very beneficial. And at the same time, your whole
pursuit can be in the internet or you do. And it can be detrimental. What do you mean you're pursuit?
Like, whatever you're trying to do, going on the internet will basically make it out. So like if you're
trying to, if you're trying to learn 3D modeling, going the internet, you can learn 3D modeling,
100% or not 100%. But you can learn to be a professional 3D modeler on the internet.
At the same time, you get caught up watching some nonsense and not even take one step towards 3D modeling.
I want to say it's that they caught me at the internet. YouTube has the same dichotomy. But if you
subscribe to the Jockel podcast YouTube channel, there's no dichotomy there. All good. All good.
100% upside because it has video version of the podcast. It has excerpts and it has various other
little videos. We'll just sort of add. I always say I'm going to add, but this time I think I'm
really going to add a different type of video. You'll see. Anyway, good way to support. Also,
Jockel is a store. If you didn't already know, it's called Jockel Store. Jockel Store. Come,
that's where you can get the shirt that Jockel is wearing right now. Victory MMA in fitness.
You have to be a member of a victory MMA in fitness. If you have the shirt, you're kind of a member.
Yeah, at least in spirit. You're a member in a, yeah, in that sort of way. Nonetheless,
it's on Jockel Store. Come. It's where you can get any of the shirts that we make and sell. We also have
hoodies on there and rash cards and hats and patches. A lot of good stuff. Kids, women's good stuff.
I'm not saying to go buy something. I'm not saying that. I'm saying go there. Jockel Store. Come.
Check out this stuff. You want something? Get something. And that's a good way to support. Also,
psychological warfare. If you don't know what that is, which I know you do. But in the
unlikely event of you not knowing what that is, this is what it is. It's an album.
Not a music album. It's a spoken word album with tracks. Jockel, helping us through
weak points of our day, weak points of our campaign against weakness, weak points of our struggle,
struggle, good struggles. Struggle for good, sure. Struggle for good. That's what it is.
You know, the day you want to, you want to sleep in or you want to chew it on the day. You want to
procrastinate. You want to skip the workout. That's the main one. That's iconic one.
Just keeping the workout. Because you get workouts. All the rest of us are over getting leg day.
I'm sorry, but I did legs the other day. A good one. Didn't skip it. Psychological warfare. That's
on iTunes. It helps you through it. Yeah. Some people don't know. So it's Jockel on each track.
I'm telling you sometimes that they're like, wait, what did I didn't hear it of this?
Psychological warfare. Now they're not going to listen to the rest of this podcast.
Brother, they will. It only has like two minutes three, four, like 25 minutes left. I'm just saying.
Psychological warfare is good. It's almost done. If you want Jockel to help you, just put it in.
That's what originated. Jockel. Me. Not skip workout. You can get an iTunes. You can get on Amazon
music. You can get on Google Play and other podcasting. Other MP3 platforms. Providing platforms.
Also, if you're on Amazon, you can get something called Jockel White Tea. If you don't
want to have your deadlift increase to eliminate thousand pounds, then don't get Jockel White
Tea. You can get the books. Yeah, the books that we cover on the podcast, which are all
listed on the website. You can also get a couple of books that you might want to check out. One of
them is called Way of the War Your Kid. I actually wrote that book. It teaches kids to make their
lives better to get on the path. And work hard. There's another book coming out. It's actually
available on Amazon right now. Well, you can't get it yet, but you can pre-order it. If you want to
spread the word, you pre-order it. That makes more people see it. So that's cool. It's called Way of the
War Your Kid Marks Mission. Nice. Little follow-up to Way of the War Your Kid. Different lessons
to be learned. So you can check that out. If you want to check out an actual War Your Kid,
you can go and get some Jocco soap from Young Aiden. Twelve years old, no big deal. You know what
he's doing? Making soap. He has his own business. You can get that at IrishOx Ranch.com. Like I said,
a 12 year old kid making goat milk soap. You know why? You're why did that? You can't sell goat
milk in California. Yeah. But you can't sell goat soap. Good milk. So yeah. Sure. So he wanted to
make some good ones. So you can check that out as well. The discipline equals freedom,
field manual. It's about getting after it. There's really nothing more to say. If you,
I've gotten a lot of great feedback from that book. So I appreciate it. And once you feel that,
you've gotten what you can out of it, loan it to somebody so they can get on the path to.
Maybe they'll get their own or get it form whatever to your choice. Important part of that.
Everyone wants the audio version of that book. The discipline equals freedom field manual.
Is not on audible. It's on iTunes. Amazon music, Google Play, other MP3 platforms. And it also
is an album that has tracks. Some people say with tracks. Extreme ownership. The new
edition is out. Thank you for helping us put the new new edition together because we've got
questions from this podcast. A new folder. We've also got pictures or a question from the podcast
in there. Extreme ownership, combat leadership. How to get up there and leave you to the win.
For onsite leadership instruction and consulting, you can bring our company, Eshelon front to
your organization. We solve problems through leadership. Simple as that. You got a problem. The way
you get the problem solved is through leadership. It's me. It's latefablin. It's JP to now.
Today, Burke, email info on Eshelon front.com or you can go through the website Eshelon front.com.
There's also the Master Leadership Seminar with the Eshelon front team. We're only doing
two this year. I'm going to try and get a bunch of questions that I get asked all the time.
I'm going to try and get rid of those questions right now. We're only doing two masters this year.
We aren't going to New York City. We aren't going to Texas. We aren't going to Florida. We aren't
going to your hometown. I'm sorry. We just can't. We can't go to every town in America to do a
master. We're only doing two of them this year. We're doing one in Washington DC. So as an East
Coast in the West Coast, one is in Washington DC. It's May 17th and 18th. We're doing another one
in San Francisco October 17th and 18th. So if you want to come to a master, you got to come to
one of those two. We're not going to Omaha. We're not going to Milwaukee. I want to go there,
but unfortunately we can't just get to all those different places. So apologize thus far,
there has been four masters that we've done over the past year and a half. They all sold out.
These two masters are going to sell out as well. So if you want to come and you want to learn
pragmatic leadership skills and strategies, then you can go to extremownership.com and you can
register. We will see you there. Echo Charles will also be there. And until you get to the
master, if you have questions for us, or you have answers for us, we're looking for both. We're here
and we are cruising hard actually on the interwebs on Twitter, Instagram, and on Duffy.
Boha. Echo is at Echo Charles and I am at Jocca Willink and finally thanks to those people
out there that make this podcast possible. And by that, I mean first and foremost, our military men
and women who go into harm's way to protect our freedom and our way of life. Thanks to you and also
to the police out there holding the thin blue line. Thanks for protecting us here on the home front
to the firefighters, paramedics, and other first responders. Thanks for being ready to come out
and rescue us anytime. Day or night into everyone else, that is listening. Thank you for listening.
Thank you for sharing. Thank you for supporting the podcast. Because we appreciate. We appreciate
all that, but more important. We appreciate going down this path with all of you. So keep putting
one foot in front of the other as you move down this path, keep making the decisions, the right
decisions, even on the little things, keep attacking, pushing, pursuing without cease and most of
all keep getting after it. So until next time, this is Echo and Jocco out.